Query: list all articles on el and ecl el may be given as el i dontremember how they did it
CACM-1878
Recovery of Reentrant <B>List</B> Structures in SLIP One consequence of the reference-count-based space-recovery system employed by SLIP is that reentrant <B>list</B> structures are not recovered even when explicitly erased. ... Given this modification, a LISP-like garbage collector that recovers abandoned reentrant <B>list</B> structures may then be appended to the SLIP system.

CACM-0497
It is further shown that an equation for u(i) involving no minimization may be found. ... Further Remarks on Line Segment Curve-Fitting Using Dynamic Programming In a recent paper, Bellman showed how dynamic programming could be used to determine the solution to a problem previously considered by Stone.

CACM-1051
Multiword <B>List</B> Items The <B>list</B> concept as originally proposed by Newell, Simon and Shaw specified single computer words as elements of a <B>list</B>. ... Following a brief description of standard <B>list</B> structures with single-word items, the multiword items are introduced.

CACM-1608
It is shown that they can be used for some other singularities as well as poles. ... Even if the divergence occurs quite far away, integration formulas like Simpson's, that depend on fitting a polynomial, usually will be inaccurate: near a pole they will be very bad.

CACM-2305
Although this early approach to a programming language did not lead to practical use, the plan is described here because it contains features that are standard in today's programming languages. ... The investigation is of historical interest; also, it may provide insights that would lead to advancements in the state of the art.

CACM-2184
Whereas a function can be regarded as the abstraction based upon the first two terms of the expression Lambda(name list)(expression)(value list), it is found that a context can be viewed as an abstraction based upon the first two terms in the equivalent expression Mu(name list)(value list)(expression). ... On the Meaning of Names in Programming Systems It is assumed that there is a similarity of function between the data names of a programming language and the file names of an operating system.

CACM-1046
A Compiler-Building System Developed by Brooker and Morris In a number of <B>articles</B> published during the past two years, R. ... A.

CACM-1861
Information is given on how one writes definitions, as well as on much of the motivation behind the form in which definitions are written. ... The MAD Definition Facility One of the first definition facilities for higher level languages is described.

CACM-1957
The <B>List</B> Set Generator: A Construct for Evaluating Set Expressions The <B>list</B> set generator is defined and algorithms for its use are given. ... The <B>list</B> set generator is a construct which may be added to a <B>list</B> processing system or any system that handles sets.

CACM-1456
An important conclusion is that, although LISP and other <B>list</B> processing languages are ideally suited for producing complex associative structures, they are inadequate vehicles for language processing on any large scale-at east until they can use auxiliary memory as a continuous extension of core memory. ... Storage and Retrieval of Aspects of Meaning in Directed Graph Structures An experimental system that uses LISP to make a conceptual dictionary is described.

CACM-1614
Examples of definition sets are given for real and complex matrices, complex numbers, file processing, and <B>list</B> manipulation. ... Even the behavior of existing operators may be redefined.

CACM-1459
Requirements for Real-Time Languages Real-time languages have different requirements from other programming languages because of the special nature of their applications, the environment in which their object programs are executed and the environment in which they may be compiled. ... Progress may be made by attacking the special compiling and executing system problems that must be solved.

CACM-2317
A number of university projects,though not directly comparable to those of the manufacturers, have contributed greatly to a better understanding of operating system principles. ... Programming Systems and Languages 1965-1975 In spite of impressive gains by PL/I, Fortran and Cobol remain the languages in which most of the world's production programs are written and will remain so into the foreseeable future.

CACM-1210
File-Handling Within FORTRAN This note describes some FORTRAN subroutines to facilitate handling of tape files. ... They allow symbolic naming of information files, without violating the casual scientific programmer's idea of simplicity.

CACM-1931
) can be used effectively to bound errors in matrix computations. ... Interval Arithmetic Determinant Evaluation and Its Use in Testing for a Chebyshev System Two recent papers, one by Hansen and one by Hansen and R.

CACM-1588
PL/I <B>List</B> Processing The concepts of <B>list</B> processing have been introduced into the PL/I language. ... With these new facilities, it is possible to write PL/I procedures that operate on simple and complex data <B>list</B> organizations.

CACM-2390
This paper describes how the system can be organized and the role required of readers, writers, and commentators. ... A Proposal for a Computer-Based Interactive Scientific Community Because of the problems created by the explosion of papers in the mathematical sciences and the drawbacks that this places on research, it is suggested that a tree of all mathematical results and terminology be maintained in a multiterminal computer system.

CACM-2845
The set of permitted block sizes {SIZE(i)}, i=0,n, must satisfy the condition SIZE(i)=SIZE(i-1)+SIZE(i-k(i)) where k may be any meaningful integral-valued function. ... A Buddy System Variation for Disk Storage Allocation A generalization of the buddy system for storage allocation is described.

CACM-0069
Statistical Programs for the IBM 650-Part I A collection is given of brief descriptions of statistical programs now in use in university computing centers which have IBM 650's.

CACM-2513
A Nonrecursive <B>List</B> Moving Algorithm An efficient, nonrecursive algorithm is given for moving any LISP-type <B>list</B>. ... In particular, the algorithm requires no storage other than the new nodes into which the <B>list</B> is to be moved, and no additional bits per node for marking; the algorithm runs in time proportional to the number of nodes in the <B>list</B>.

CACM-1853
Since this is not always convenient, the Swym system permits a <B>list</B> to be chained, compact, or any combination of the two. ... The system garbage collector attempts to make all lists compact; it relocates and rearranges all of <B>list</B> storage using temporary storage.

CACM-0595
Guides to Teaching COBOL The teaching of COBOL can be divided into three main subject areas. ... Unfortunately, historical data concerning students' programming proficiency is almost non-existent and, at best, difficult to measure.

CACM-1911
To account for these phenomena it is proposed that certain machinery be added to the syntactic component of a transformational grammar. ... Precise specification of both the generative procedure of this paper and its inverse is given in the form of LISP function definitions.

CACM-2177
The graph may be represented either (i) as an ordered <B>list</B> of edges or (ii) as a packed adjacency matrix. ... If w denotes the word length of the machine employed, the storage (in machine words) required for a graph with n nodes and m edges increases essentially as 2(m+n) in case (i), or (n^2)/win case (ii).

CACM-2712
The algorithm is based on a generalization of Horner's rule for polynomials. ... Horner's Rule for the Evaluation of General Closed Queueing Networks The solution of separable closed queueing networks requires the evaluation of homogeneous multinomial expressions.

CACM-1486
Some speculations are made about how the mechanical detection of common parts or patterns of library items could help a user to solve his problems, and about the relationships between the behavior of the reprogramming machine and human intelligent behavior. ... Rules are given for transforming programs written in the language and for rearranging the items in the library so that they share their common parts.

CACM-2838
Algorithms for recovering discarded <B>list</B> structures in this manner are presented and analyzed to determine sufficient conditions under which the <B>list</B> processor never needs to wait on the collector. ... Analysis of an Algorithm for Real Time Garbage Collection A real time garbage collection system avoids suspending the operations of a <B>list</B> processor for the long times that garbage collection normally requires by performing garbage collection on a second processor in parallel with <B>list</B> processing operations, or on a single processor time-shared with them.

CACM-3054
Analytic results describing the performance of the programs are summarized. ... A variety of special situations are considered from a practical standpoint to illustrate Quicksort's wide applicability as an internal sorting method which requires negligible extra storage.

CACM-1727
This estimation can often be done without considering the structure of the whole program. ... In the first part of the paper, using the theory of the Markov chains, an algorithm for the computation of the S(ij) from the P(ij) is found, and some ways of obtaining estimates of the P(ij) are given.

CACM-2156
Comment on Cheney's List-Compaction Algorithm.

CACM-2723
The primary aim throughout is to allow the <B>list</B> processor to run unimpeded while the other processor reclaims <B>list</B> storage. ... Complete procedures for garbage collection and for standard <B>list</B> processing primitives are presented and thoroughly explained.

CACM-3031
This implementation allows for limited testing of programs at design time, before a conventional implementation is accomplished. ... Abstract Data Types and Software Validation A data abstraction can be naturally specified using algebraic axioms.

CACM-2361
A Note on Cheney's Nonrecursive List-Compacting Algorithm.

CACM-2179
These parser-construction techniques are extendible to cover all of the LR(k) grammars of Knuth; they have been implemented and by direct comparison proved to be superior to precedence techniques, not only in the range of grammars covered, but also in the speed of parser construction and in the size and speed of the resulting parsers. ... How to construct parsers for the SLR(k) grammars is also shown.

CACM-2905
Perfect Hashing Functions: A Single Probe Retrieving Method for Static Sets A refinement of hashing which allows retrieval of an item in a static table with a single probe is considered. ... The first method, the "quotient reduction" method, is shown to be complete in the sense that for every set I the smallest table in which the elements of I can be stored and from which they can be retrieved by using a perfect hashing function constructed by this method can be found.

CACM-2484
The use of different relations and algorithms results in different information structures, as list, tree, ring, etc. ... Thus the problem of information organization and storage is reduced to that of defining relations and formulating algorithms under a given set of constraints.

CACM-2228
Permanent blocking is the situation where certain processes never receive their resource requests. ... A method of preventing permanent blocking is given.

CACM-3144
The model reveals the anatomy of interpreters and how these differ from procedures, and exhibits links to protection domains and multiprocessor architectures. ... e.

CACM-3142
While most management systems may be adequate, results of the survey raise concerns about the timeliness and the number of designs of very large linked program packages (as EFT for instance). ... How many and what type of errors occur? How easily are they corrected? What is the reaction of consumers to errors-to a failure to correct them? What can be learned by designers of large management packages from such data? Results show that with the present state of the art, approximately 40 percent of individuals (or households) having average contacts with different types of accounts experience one or more errors per year.

CACM-1424
Automatic Analysis of Electronic Digital Circuits Using <B>List</B> Processing A mapping from black diagrams of digital circuits to <B>list</B> structures is described, together with a <B>list</B> processing program written for the Control Data 3600 which uses this mapping to automatically carry out circuit analysis.

CACM-0793
Mapped <B>List</B> Structures.

CACM-0627
Knotted <B>List</B> Structures.

CACM-3106
A Fast Algorithm for Copying <B>List</B> Structures An algorithm is presented for copying an arbitrarily linked <B>list</B> structure into a block of contiguous storage locations without destroying the original <B>list</B>. ... Its speed comes mainly from its efficient list-traversal technique, which folds the processing stack into the structure being built, and from its classification of <B>list</B> cells into nine types, which enables processing operations to be optimized for each type.

CACM-2622
The scheme is based on using a function H which the would-be intruder is unable to invert. ... This function is applied to the user's password and the result compared to a table entry, a match being interpreted as authentication of the user.

CACM-1264
This system will perform any or all of the following users specified functions: assemble SPS source decks, post list, produce condensed or uncondensed object decks, execute user's program, <B>list</B> card input to a program, <B>list</B> punched output, provide a storage dump, execute a program submitted for execution as an uncondensed object deck under debugging trace control, card-to-braille conversion, brailled listings of 7040 IBSYS batch output, and update or duplicate the system tape itself. ... Printed output of this system or of executing programs may be in either English or braille.

CACM-2666
Although the discrete problem may have no feasible solution, there may exist a solution to the equivalent continuous problem. ... An example is given, for which the nondiscrete solution can be interpreted as a set of timetables, differing from week to week, which together satisfy the long-term requirements of the timetable problem.

CACM-1389
A Programmer's Description of L^6 Bell Telephone Laboratories' Low-Linked <B>List</B> Language L^6 (pronounced "L-six") is a new programming language for <B>list</B> structure manipulations. ... It contains many of the facilities which underlie such <B>list</B> processors as IPL, LISP, COMIT ad SNOBOL, but permits the user to get much closer to machine code in order to write faster-running programs, to use storage more efficiently and to build a wider variety of linked data structures.

CACM-2919
Such a computer is here called a Programmer's Workbench. ... It is only when this production machine is unavailable or when its programming environment is totally inadequate that alternatives are considered.

CACM-2232
Pattern Width at a Given Angle That the pattern feature "width as a function of angle" possesses several possible interpretations is demonstrated in this paper, which is a review of the width concept in pattern recognition and the geometrical concept itself. ... All widths are calculated for an illustrative example; graphical and tabular comparisons are given.

CACM-2036
A set of functions to accomplish the above which could be embedded into any string processing language is suggested, and necessary information pertinent to implementation of the facility on existing time-sharing systems is given. ... An Interactive Command Generating Facility A facility to permit conversationally controlled tasks to be executed in a noninteractive environment is proposed.

CACM-3069
It has been implemented and is practical even on programs which are quite large. ... The algorithm is unique in that it can compute all of this information in a single pass, not requiring a prepass to compute calling relationships or sharing patterns.

CACM-3052
Use of "warm-start" rather than "cold-start" miss ratios cast doubt on the widespread belief that the observed "S-shape" of lifetime (reciprocal of miss ratio) versus capacity curve indicates a property of behavior of programs that maintain a constant number of pages in main storage. ... For large capacities the effect on the measured miss ratio of the misses incurred while filling the first-level store can be significant, even for long reference strings.

CACM-2342
A mechanical proof procedure is shown, which will either verify (prove the correctness of ) or discredit (prove the incorrectness of) an attempted solution, with respect to any of the interference properties. ... e.

CACM-2470
The theory is applied to the proof of several elementary theorems concerning the semantics of the assignment, conditional, and iterative statements. ... The technique is contrasted with the use of the paradoxical combinator, Y.

CACM-2725
A Comparison of Simulation Event <B>List</B> Algorithms (Corrigendum).

CACM-0573
Remove Item From Chain-Linked <B>List</B> (Algorithm 101).

CACM-0572
Add Item to Chain-Linked <B>List</B> (Algorithm 100).

CACM-2609
How the interpolation function can be extended to more than one variable is shown. ... An efficient Fortran program is given by which the interpolation function can be obtained for a given point set.

CACM-0482
TALL-A <B>List</B> Processor for the Philco 200 Computer.

CACM-0616
The authors have not attempted an exhaustive discourse in this report. ... Sammet, IBM Corporation.

CACM-1323
The correspondence is first described informally, mainly by illustrations. ... A Correspondence Between ALGOL 60 and Church's Lambda-Notation: Part I* This paper describes how some of the semantics of ALGOL 60 can be formalized by establishing a correspondence between expressions of ALGOL 60 and expressions in a modified form of Church's L-notation.

CACM-3180
Costs of the Current U. ... Payments System Neither the banking industry nor public policy makers have good information on the comparative costs of alternative payment systems such as cash, checks, credit cards, and EFT transactions.

CACM-0319
On a Class of Iteration Formulas and Some Historical Notes The class of iteration formulas obtainable by rational approximations of "Euler's formula" is derived with the corresponding error estimates. ... The final section considers the Pade approximants to the "Euler polynomial" and shows how a number of known formulas may be derived from this unified approach.

CACM-2742
There models are presented, all of which improve in effectiveness as the events-list scan problem becomes more burdensome. ... However, an additional problem lies in the fact that a significant amount of bookkeeping time is required to keep future events in their proper sequence.

CACM-2409
An Algorithm for the Approximate Solution of Wiener-Hopf Integral Equations An explicit approximate solution is given for an equation. ... It is furthermore assumed that Fourier transforms are known explicitly.

CACM-1972
A Nonrecursive <B>List</B> Compacting Algorithm  A simple nonrecursive <B>list</B> structure compacting scheme or garbage collector suitable for both compact and LISP-like <B>list</B> structures is presented. ... The algorithm avoids the need for recursion by using the partial structure as it is built up to keep track of those lists that have been copied.

CACM-3189
This compiler will expand all algebraic statements with the following operations: addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. ... It will compile multi-level expressions in floating-point arithmetic (this is easily be revised to fixed-point).

CACM-2744
Radix conversion is unnecessary, no looping is required, and numbers may even be stored in a display (I/O) format. ... Addition in an Arbitrary Base Without Radix Conversion This paper presents a generalization of an old programming technique; using it,one may add and subtract numbers represented in any radix, including a mixed radix, and stored one digit per byte in bytes of sufficient size.

CACM-0675
Flexible, computer-produced, composite laboratory reports are also discussed, along with reproduction of such a report. ... This paper describes how the codes were developed and presents a listing of the urin analysis codes.

CACM-2855
An Efficient List-Moving Algorithm Using Constant Workspace An efficient algorithm is presented for moving arbitrary <B>list</B> structures, using no storage (apart from program variables) other than that required to hold the original <B>list</B> and the copy. ... The original <B>list</B> is destroyed as it is moved.

CACM-2703
The circularity problem for a grammar is to determine whether the semantics for all possible sentences (programs) in fact will be well defined. ... It is proved that this problem is, in general, computationally intractable.

CACM-0204
Proving Theorems by Pattern Recognition I.

CACM-0171
Digital Computers in Universities (Part I).

CACM-2700
Here sufficient conditions are obtained to show that the assumption that a statement is indivisible can be relaxed and still preserve properties such as halting. ... that the statement cannot be interleaved with the rest of the program.

CACM-0731
Symmetric <B>List</B> Processor  A <B>list</B> processing system in which each <B>list</B> cell contains both a forward and a backward link as well as a datum is described. ... This system is intended for imbeding in higher level languages capable of calling functions and subroutines coded in machine language.

CACM-1248
On the Automatic Simplification of Computer Programs Presented in this paper is the problem of writing a program which would examine any other program and perform such simplifications on it as can be detected from the argument-program's form alone, without having any knowledge of what it is supposed to do.

CACM-1536
Evaluation of a function and derivative proceed in parallel, as in Wengert's procedure, but with the "imaginary" parts of variables declared complex bearing the values of the derivatives of the real parts. ... Dynamic Computation of Derivatives It is shown how Wengert's procedure for computation of derivatives can be implemented conveniently by use of compiler-generated complex addition, subtraction, and linkage to complex arithmetic subroutines.

CACM-3202
The problemm of performing algebraic operations and obtaining analytic derivatives was translated into that of identifying and manipulating character sequences. ... MANIP: A Computer System for Algebra and Analytic Differentiation   A mathematical expression to be operated upon is written in FORTRAN-like notation and stored in the computer as a string of BCD characters with all blanks removed.

CACM-2304
This article records the events of the early years in a personal way. ... histories of the digital computer field have tended to be impersonal, with heavy emphasis on eastern universities and commercial developments.

CACM-0452
Nesting of for Statement I (Algorithm 137).

CACM-0201
Bessel Funtion I, Series Expansion (Algorithm 5).

CACM-0200
Bessel Function I, Asymptotic Expansion (Algorithm 6).

CACM-2051
The program tabulates the correspondences, and uses <B>list</B> processing techniques to sort and count them. ... The output is a <B>list</B> of all correspondence types with their frequency of occurrence in the data, and a separate listing of each correspondence with all word-pairs showing that correspondence (unless their relative value is below an arbitrarily chosen cutoff point).

CACM-2665
Copying <B>List</B> Structures Using Bounded Workspace Two new algorithms are presented for <B>list</B> structure copying using bounded workspace. ... A variation of the second algorithm solves an open problem concerning <B>list</B> structure marking.

CACM-2340
Necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of precedence functions are given. ... The use of Boolean matrices to prove the existence of precedence functions associated with classes of conflict-free grammars is illustrated through an example.

CACM-2106
It should: (1) raise as few spurious issues as possible; (2) allow, without undue effort, the solution of interesting problems; (3) be capable of exposing all outstanding issues of significance, capable of exposing all outstanding issues of significance, within the chosen machine; (4) be seful for pursuing issues in great depth when appropriate; (5) not be committed to the equipment provided by any manufacturer; (6) be able to provide the student with diagnostic aids to a great depth; (7) allow the student ready access to the machine; (8) be capable of extension to expose new issues as they come along. ... This system, called the PRISM system, is documented by a primer and a reference manual.

CACM-3188
Semiotics and Programming Languages   I have based my paper on semiotics and its three dimension. ... I should insert at this point that language has many aspects and that pragmatics, semantics and syntactics do not necessary cover all of them.

CACM-1847
A spanning tree is grown and the vertices examined in turn, unexamined vertices being stored in a pushdown <B>list</B> to await examination. ... One stage in the process is to take the top element v of the pushdown <B>list</B> and examine it, i.

CACM-1643
It is shown how the accuracy of this division may be increased by dividing in order of both ascending and descending powers of the variable and choosing a crossover point which minimizes a very simply calculated error criterion. ... An Improvement to Iterative Methods of Polynomial Factorization Methods of polynomial factorization which find the zeros one at a time require the division of the polynomial by the accepted factor.

CACM-0964
The results were photo composed on a Photon S-560 system, that was controlled by tapes which were punched directly from the computer output, so avoiding manual keyboarding, transcription errors and keyboarded correction. ... They are of interest in molecular quantum chemistry.

CACM-2199
A Sparse Matrix Package (Part I) [F4] (Algorithm 408).

CACM-2542
This system is based on a simple, high level language which is used to describe the evolving system at all stages of its development. ... A system which integrates performance evaluation with design and implementation is described.

CACM-2229
Construction of Rational and Negative Powers of a Formal Series Some methods are described for the generation of fractional and negative powers of any formal series, such as Poisson series or Chebyshev series. ... Both methods are described here, and the relationship between them is pointed out.

CACM-1874
Generating Pseudorandom Numbers on a Two's Complement Machine such as the IBM 360 The familiar multiplicative congruential generator is examined in the context of the type of two's complement arithmetic used in the IBM 360 series. ... Different sequences of residues are considered and relationships established among them.

CACM-0973
Estimation of Heart Parameters Using Skin Potential Measurements A fundamental problem of vector cardiography is the estimation of the state of the heart on the basis of skin potential measurements. ... A feasible solution, employing quasilinearization and high-speed digital computers, is given.

CACM-2095
Measurements of Segment Size Distributions of segment sizes measured under routine operating con ditions on a computer system which utilizes variable sized segments (the Burroughs B5500) are discussed. ... The most striking feature of the measurements is the large number of small segments-about 60 percent of the segments in use contain less than 40 words.

CACM-2772
On Maintenance of the Opportunity <B>List</B> for Class-Teacher Timetable Problems One of the principal components of procedures for the solution of class-teacher timetable problems is that for maintenance of the opportunity <B>list</B>. ... Opportunity <B>list</B> maintenance methods are based on necessary conditions for the existence of a solution.

CACM-2865
The information in a partial correctness proof can be used to prove such properties as mutual exclusion, freedom from deadlock, and program termination. ... A crucial axiom provides for the use of auxiliary variables, which are added to a parallel program as an aid to proving it correct.

CACM-3121
Two case studies illustrate the way in which syntactic and semantic source to source transformations may be used for development of clear, simple, and reasonably efficient programs. ... A catalogue of syntactic transforms, and its use for solution of a system of program equations, is given.

CACM-1390
CONVERT A programming language is described which is applicable to problems conveniently described by transformation rules. ... The advantages of the language are that it allows one to apply transformation rules to lists and arrays as easily as strings, that both patterns and skeletons may be defined recursively, and that as a consequence programs may be stated quite concisely.

CACM-0527
Like the definition, the description <B>list</B> structure of a concept is also built up from elementary <B>list</B> structures by a recursive process. ... The <B>list</B> structures obtained this way are compared with the description <B>list</B> structure discussed by the author in a previous publication.

CACM-1306
A Class of Unambiguous Computer Languages Discussed in this paper is the concept of a fully nested computer language which may be one means of designing computer languages which would be completely free of ambiguities. ... Several suggestions are also given here for the redefinition of ALGOL as a fully nested language.

CACM-2491
Hardware and software realizations of it are given. ... In software it is realized as interpretive code not needing an interpreter.

CACM-0677
Length of Strings for a Merge Sort Detailed statistics are given on the length of maximal sorted strings which result form the first (internal sort) phase of a merge sort onto tapes. ... It is shown that the strings produced by an alternating method (i.

CACM-0106
Given a <B>list</B> that is no longer needed, it is desired to erase just those parts that do not overlap other lists. ... The method employs interspersed reference counts to describe the extent of the overlapping.

CACM-3172
A trajectory of this reference point which avoids all forbidden regions is free of collisions. ... The algorithm transforms the obstacles so that they represent the locus of forbidden positions for an arbitrary reference point on the moving object.

CACM-0078
The purpose of this note is to establish a mathematical framework or model for these practical procedures and thus assist in the use and extension of the ideas in other particular problems. ... ) A number of other papers have applied particular devices to particular problems.

CACM-2986
For example, how to compute operator precedence or Wirth-Weber precedence relations in O(n^2) steps is shown, as well as how to compute linear precedence functions in O(n^2) steps is shown, as well as how to compute linear precedence functions in O(n) steps, where n is the size of a grammer. ... The heart of the algorithms is a general theorem giving sufficient conditions under which an expression whose operands are sparse relations and whose operators are composition, transitive closure, union, and inverse, can be computed efficiently.

CACM-2949
" A correctness proof of this Topology Information Protocol is also presented. ... The Topology Information Protocol that was implemented on the MERIT Computer Network is presented and explained; this protocol is quite general and could be implemented on any computer network.

CACM-1805
These programs are actually proceeding intermittently and singly, according to eligibility (readiness to proceed) and priority. ... The algorithm is sensitive to most of the factors that control the phenomenon, including nonquantitative or topological features of the programs' structures.

CACM-3112
<B>List</B> Processing in Real Time on a Serial Computer A real-time <B>list</B> processing system is one in which the time required by the elementary <B>list</B> operations (e. ... Classical implementations of <B>list</B> processing systems lack this property because allocating a <B>list</B> cell from the heap may cause a garbage collection, which process requires time proportional to the heap size to finish.

CACM-0849
Conversely, a chained file allocation permits efficient alteration but cannot be searched efficiently. ... It is also shown that optimizing the value of s leads to a search time which is only 25 per cent slower than the binary search.

CACM-3199
ALGEM - An Algebraic Manipulator   ALGEM is a package of subprograms written in Slip, FORTRAN IV and MAP 7094 II to manipulate algebraic expressions. ... It is capable of handling any number of single letter variables, variable exponents, and of finding the highest common factor of two polynomials.

CACM-2486
They include: the representation of special characters (foreign alphabets, mathematical symbols, etc. ... New solutions to several of these problems have been devised in the information system of the American Institute of Physics.

CACM-2480
Teaching "About Programming" This paper presents the goals and organization of a course about programming designed to provide entering students in a graduate program with a cultural enrichment in their professional lives. ... Teaching someone how to program is similar to teaching him to play a musical instrument: neither skill can be taught-they must be learned.

CACM-1216
Symbolic Derivatives Without <B>List</B> Processing, Subroutines, or Recursion A routine has been developed which computes and prints out the symbolic derivative of an absolutely continuous elementary function of one or several variables. ... No use is made of list-processing languages.

CACM-1549
An Efficient Machine-Independent Procedure for Garbage Collection in Various <B>List</B> Structures A method for returning registers to the free <B>list</B> is an essential part of any <B>list</B> processing system. ... Finally, the application of the algorithm to a number of different <B>list</B> structures appearing in the literature is indicated.

CACM-3056
e. ... Counting Large Numbers of Events in Small Registers It is possible to use a small counter to keep approximate counts of large numbers.

CACM-1958
It is then shown how an improved version of the method can be obtained with the addition of two Fortran statements. ... In this note the heart of the scheme is presented in Fortran language.

CACM-2646
A basic permutation algorithm and several variations are given. ... It discusses the anticipatory input and output of blocks of data to buffer and primary memories for a mono-programmed computer system.

CACM-1824
It also has available as normal PL/I variables, the information concerning which of the various alternatives were successful. ... Convenient facilities for multiple input-output streams, the initiation of sequences of parse-requests as a subroutine, and parse-time semantic checks are also included.

CACM-2201
At the user's request, this record is sent to the IBM 360/75 where the S-D 4020 instructions necessary to produce the same sequence of pictures can be generated. ... During all stages on the system input elements (light pen, pushbuttons, and teletype) is maintained.

CACM-2841
Also examined are some of the features that should be part of a practical 3-D system for designing space-forms. ... Designing Surfaces in 3-D An experimental system for computer-aided design of free-form surfaces in three dimensions is described.

CACM-1035
Characteristics of the FORTRAN CEP Language The FORTRAN CEP languages differs from FORTRAN II mainly because: (1) it extends the variety of the modes for real quantities; (2) it allows suitable mixtures, in an input/output <B>list</B> or in an expression, of quantities that occur under different modes; (3) it makes it possible to address a greater number of input/output equipment; and (4) it removes the restrictions on the complexity of the <B>list</B> of quantities to be transmitted between the magnetic core memory and the drum or the magnetic tape units.

CACM-2786
A System for Typesetting Mathematics This paper describes the design and implementation of a system for typesetting mathematics. ... Output maybe produced on either a phototypesetter or on a terminal with forward and reverse half-line motions.

CACM-2840
e. ... In restricted cases, it can be shown that this problem is decidable, i.

CACM-2766
Copying Cyclic <B>List</B> Structures in Linear Time Using Bounded Workspace A bounded workspace copying algorithm for arbitrary <B>list</B> structures is given. ... The best previous bounded workspace copying algorithms achieved n^2 time without tag bits and n log n time with one tag.

CACM-2301
Koster, the inventor of affix based on recursive procedures. ... Generating Parsers for Affix Grammars Affix grammars are two-level grammars which are similar to van Wijngaarden's two-level grammars used in the definition of Algol 68.

CACM-1530
The ML/I Macro Processor A general purpose macro processor called ML/I is described. ... This allows a complete user-oriented language to be built up with relative ease.

CACM-1352
Automatic Integration of a Function with a Parameter Two efficient methods for automatic numerical integration are Romberg integration and adaptive Simpson integration. ... A FORTRAN program shows how to achieve this greater efficiency.

CACM-2406
This paper reviews past work in the data definition language for describing both logical and physical aspects of data. ... Most data definition languages concentrate on the declaration of logical data structures with little concern for how these structures are physically realized on a computer system.

CACM-2561
A Heuristic Approach to Inductive Inference in Fact Retrieval Systems Heuristic procedures are presented which have been developed to perform inferences by generalizing from available information. ... They are implemented in a model fact retrieval system which uses a formal query language and a property-list data structure.

CACM-3157
Multisets (bags) over a given well-founded set S are sets that admit multiple occurrences of elements taken from S. ... The given ordering on S induces an ordering on the finite multisets over S.

CACM-2319
Operating System Performance An overview of the current and future positions with respect to operating system performance is given. ... Because of the severe interactions between the various subsystems of an operating system, an overall model of the total system must be developed to be able to analyze and design the performance aspects of an operating system although such total system designs are exceptional today, it is projected that they will become increasingly more common and necessary in the near future.

CACM-3020
Our performance comparison results are presented and our conclusions are briefly discussed. ... Systematic Recursion Removal The recursion removal algorithm presented by Strong and Walker is amplified and applied to a relatively complex PL/I program.

CACM-0321
The "metalinguistic formulae" admirably serve the purpose of precisely specifying a language, but they are certainly not very readable for a beginner. ... However, experience has shown that once the report is explained it is in fact easy to learn ALGOL and to write algorithms in it.

CACM-1622
An Efficient Procedure for the Generation of Closed Subsets An efficient algorithm is described for generating subsets of a set S which satisfy constraints of the form: "If s(i) is a member of the subset, then s(j) must also be a member of the subset. ... " The algorithm has been programmed in the WISP language and successfully run on the IBM 7094 in connection with a routine to detect feedback in multidimensional iterative networks.

CACM-3074
The algorithm operates by reversibly encoding the situation (that a collection of locations point to a single location) by a linear list, emanating from the pointed-to location, passing through the pointing locations, and terminating with the pointed-to location's transplanted contents. ... An algorithm is described here which accomplishes this task in linear time relative to the size of the storage area, and in a space of the order of one bit for each pointer.

CACM-2139
When there is low probability that the test will be satisfied, it is shown how the operation can be speeded up considerably if it is preceded by a test on appropriately chosen hash codes of the strings. ... Implementation of the Substring Test by Hashing A technique is described for implementing the test which determines if one string is a substring of another.

CACM-2769
A Modification of Warshall's Algorithm for the Transitive Closure of Binary Relations An algorithm is given for computing the transitive closure of a binary relation that is represented by a Boolean matrix. ... The algorithm is similar to Warshall's although it executes faster for sparse matrices on most computers, particularly in a paging environment.

CACM-2378
A process is able to specify a request for a complicated action on the part of the supervisor (usually a wait on the occurrence of a compound event in the system) by combining these primitives into a "supervisory computer program. ... An Operating System Based on the Concept of a Supervisory Computer An operating system which is organized as a small supervisor and a set of independent processes are described.

CACM-1382
The author examines some projections concerning the supply and demand for mathematicians in the United States through the mid-1970s, comments briefly on some of the factors which may influence the professional activities of applied mathematicians over the next several years, and discusses in broad terms how this information may relate to the undergraduate training of mathematicians. ... Desired Computer Impact on Undergraduate Mathematics  Three matters relating to the theme of the Symposium are discussed here.

CACM-0322
These incompatibilities are currently resolved by manually setting up the computer for each system as required. ... Operational Compatibility of Systems-CONVENTIONS The General Standards Committee of the SHARE organization has devoted considerable effort to the problem of operating a computer efficiently in view of the growing number of programming systems available.

CACM-2002
The elements common to all types of data plots are outlined and the way in which these elements may be combined into a system based on simple modules is demonstrated. ... The user may interact freely with AMESPLOT at three levels, enabling him to construct his own data markers, alphabetic characters, and transformations, and to produce a variety of artistic and other effects.

CACM-1856
By this means, the meaning of all text the program successfully comprehends is encoded into the same format as that of the memory. ... The Teachable Language Comprehender: A Simulation Program and Theory of Language The Teachable Language Comprehender (TLC) is a program designed to be capable of being taught to "comprehend" English text.

CACM-3057
If the monotone property is dropped, then the problem becomes NP-complete, even if it is restricted to k2 = 2. ... A tree search algorithm for optimal his togram matching is presented which has time complexity O(k1 x k2).

CACM-2767
Two of the algorithms are new, one is based on an end-order tree structure for event notices, and another uses an indexed linear <B>list</B>. ... The most promising algorithm uses the indexed <B>list</B> concept.

CACM-1443
A Method for Finding the Least Squares Estimate of the Intersection Point of Two Helices in Space When the helical trajectories of two charged particles moving away from a common point in a magnetic field are reconstructed from measurements on the tracks, the reconstructed tracks are perturbed by measurement and other errors and do not, in general, intersect. ... A method is given for adjusting the reconstructed tracks in a least squares manner so that they do intersect.

CACM-1155
When given 68 facts, DEDUCOM answered 10 questions answerable from the facts. ... (6) At present, DEDUCOM's method of making logical deductions in predicate calculus has two bad defects: some facts have to be changed to logically equivalent ones before being given to DEDUCOM, and some redundant facts have to be given to DEDUCOM.

CACM-3060
Fortran 77 There is a new standard Fortran. ... 9-1966.

CACM-2931
Programming languages offer an obvious opportunity as their syntactic formalization is well advanced; however, the semantical theory can hardly be said to be complete. ... The experience of many independent workers with the method of data types as lattices (or partial orderings) under an information content ordering, and with their continuous mappings, has demonstrated the flexibility of this approach in providing definitions and proofs, which are clean and without undue dependence on implementations.

CACM-3098
Computer Generation of Gamma Random Variables A new method for generating random variables from the gamma distribution with nonintegral shape parameter a is proposed. ... The proposed method is the same as Fishman's method for 1 < a < 2 and is faster than Fishman's method for 3 < a < 19.

CACM-2148
e. ... The associated syntax is briefly reviewed.

CACM-1288
CLP-The Cornell <B>List</B> Processor Presented in this paper are the highlights of CLP, a teaching language which has been employed at Cornell University and was constructed to serve as a means of introducing simulation and other list-processing concepts. ... The various advantages of CLP are discussed and examples are given.

CACM-2850
A particular system called EFFIGY which provides symbolic execution for program testing and debugging is also described. ... A brief discussion of the relationship between symbolic execution and program proving is also included.

CACM-2806
" One (for linear systems) is known; the other (for eigen systems) seems to be new. ... Two Hadamard Numbers for Matrices A discussion is given of two functions of the entries of a square matrix, both related to Hadamard's determinant theorem, which have some merits as alternatives to norm-bound "condition numbers.

CACM-0367
Given a <B>list</B> of these lines in numeric order, a simple technique can be used to create at high speed a <B>list</B> in topological order. ... Topological Ordering of a <B>List</B> of Randomly-Numbered Elements of a Network A network of directed line segments free of circular elements is assumed.

CACM-3032
To this <B>list</B> of algorithms we add (6) reverse path forwarding, a broadcast routing method which exploits routing procedures and data structures already available for packet switching. ... The algorithm is described as being practical  because it is not optimal according to metrics developed for its analysis in this paper, and also because it can be implemented in existing networks with less complexity than that required for the known alternatives.

CACM-1350
A technique for performing the SD(Gs,X) to SD(G,X) transformation effectively is also described. ... The comparison is based upon several criteria of efficiency, covering core-storage requirements, complexities of the programs and processing time.

CACM-2493
By reorganizing the data base the cost per access may be reduced. ... However, the high cost of a reorganization prohibits frequent reorganizations.

CACM-1806
An introduction to this method is given and a critical review of relating literature is presented. ... On the Downhill Method The downhill method is a numerical method for solving complex equations f(z) = 0 on which the only restriction is that the function w = f(z) must be analytical.

CACM-1346
The aim of this paper is to investigate the limitations of the applicability of certain extensions of the algorithm to the case where the approximations are rational as well as to present some numerical results. ... However, the few results known in this domain show how efficient the algorithm can be to obtain approximations with a small error, much more than in the polynomial case, in which the best approximation can be very nearly approached directly by a series development.

CACM-1873
Other LP applications are indicated. ... Accelerating LP Algorithms It is shown how a novel method for computing (related) inner products can accelerate the pricing phase of LP algorithms.

CACM-0457
Quantum Mechanical Integrals Over all Slater-Type Integrals.

CACM-1961
A rigorous proof of the algorithm is given as well as an example of its application. ... An Efficient Search Algorithm to Find the Elementary Circuits of a Graph A theoretically most efficient search algorithm is presented which uses an exhaustive search to find all of the elementary circuits of a graph.

CACM-2060
In particular, functions and labels are permissible results of functions and values of variables. ... e.

CACM-1162
The meta-language presented here can be used to specify the mapping of any language which conforms to a canonical <B>list</B> form into an arbitrary stream of bits. ... Assembly languages generally provide a one-for-one translation from a symbolic to a numeric version of a program, that is, from assembly language to machine language.

CACM-2750
As such, it can aid in quantifying the problems of data set allocation, storage system configuration, and new device designs. ... It considers many of the significant detailed costs of system utilization, data storage, data staging, and data migration.

CACM-2444
Finding All Cliques of an Undirected Graph (Algorithm A457).

CACM-2376
The formal description of the synchronization mechanism makes it very easy to prove that the buffer will neither overflow nor underflow, that senders and receivers will never operate on the same message frame in the buffer nor will they run into a deadlock. ... This is demonstrated for a system consisting of many sending processes which deposit messages in a buffer and many receiving processes which remove messages from that buffer.

CACM-2730
As a demonstration, Weizenbaum's ELIZA program has been provided with a script that turns it into a natural language system consultant. ... Interactive Consulting via Natural Language Interactive programming systems often contain help commands to give the programmer on-line instruction regarding the use of the various systems commands.

CACM-3076
This paper examines the incentives for EFT developments and the social problems they raise in the context of conflicts between five different value positions that are often implicit in analyses of proposed EFT arrangements. ... Last, the ways in which the public can learn about the social qualities of different EFT arrangements and the pace of EFT developments are both discussed in the context of social choice.

CACM-2833
An Efficient, Incremental, Automatic Garbage Collector This paper describes a new way of solving the storage reclamation problem for a system such as Lisp that allocates storage automatically from a heap, and does not require the programmer to give any indication that particular items are no longer useful or accessible. ... They depend on the fact that most cells are referenced exactly once, and that reference counts need only be accurate when storage is about to be reclaimed.

CACM-1877
The algorithms have been successfully used in the THE system. ... Proofs given in the appendixes show that the conditions imposed by the algorithms are both necessary and sufficient to prevent deadlock.

CACM-1613
One-Pass Compilation of Arithmetic Expressions for a Parallel Processor Under the assumption that a processor may have a multiplicity of arithmetic units, a compiler for such a processor should produce object code to take advantage of possible parallelism of operation. ... The algorithm is a variant of the so-called "top-down" analysis technique, and requires only one pass of the input text.

CACM-2018
It has been shown that when the length of the table is a prime of the form 4n+3, where n is an integer, the whole table may be accessed by two quadratic searches plus a separate access for the original entry point. ... The simple quadratic search only accesses half the table.

CACM-1769
The Expanding World of Computers The onward sweep of automatic processing of information is impeded by nine principal barriers: geography, cost, problem complexity, man-machine communication, inadequate sensors, lack of understanding, distance, time, and size. ... Problem-oriented languages are particularly effective over the entire front.

CACM-1348
One most describe the syntax of the control statements in his language; for this purpose a metalanguage is available. ... However, it is not necessary to confine one's scope to existing languages.

CACM-2483
The tree searching algorithms are the heart of COKO's effectiveness, yet they are conceptually simple. ... A clear distinction between tree pruning and selective tree searching is also made.

CACM-1212
Non-linear Extrapolation and Two-Point Boundary Value Problems It is suggested that the convergence properties of the usual Picard successive approximation scheme may be improved through use of non-linrar extrapolation techniques. ... A numerical example is provided.

CACM-2981
Subgoal Induction A proof method, subgoal induction, is presented as an alternative or supplement to the commonly used inductive assertion method. ... The relation between subgoal induction and other commonly used induction rules is explored and, in particular, it is shown that subgoal induction can be viewed as a specialized form of computation induction.

CACM-1024
A Note on the Formation of Free <B>List</B>.

CACM-3150
Beyond Programming Languages As computer technology matures, our growing ability to create large systems is leading to basic changes in the nature of programming. ... This paper analyzes some of the shortcomings of programming languages as they now exist, and lays out some possible directions for future research.

CACM-2580
This method uses some music theory plus additional heuristics. ... Fundamental to the method is a set of productions together with sets of applicability rules and weight rules which operate on the productions deciding when and to what extent they are available for use.

CACM-2893
Computers as an Innovation in American Local Governments Computers and electronic data processing are a major technological innovation in the operations of American local government. ... This paper establishes that there is substantial variation among the larger local governments in the rate at which they adopt computer technology, in the level of financial support they provide for EDP, and in the extensiveness and sophistication of their automated applications.

CACM-2526
Several analytic models are introduced, and it is shown that such hierarchies may operate in ways which differ from those of more conventional hierarchies. ... This situation may not continue, as several devices are currently under development which may have a very small read-time/write-time ratio.

CACM-2979
Although the vehicle of these investigations has been the game of poker, a conceptual framework has been provided that should have a fairly wide range of applicability. ... There has also been in terest in how humans make deductive and inductive inferences and form and optimize heuristic rules, and how machines can reach similar results.

CACM-2439
Such programs can be written using standard input and output instructions in any language available on the system. ... This paper describes how this multiple-terminal facility was implemented without requiring any changes in the system executive or in any of the system's compilers or interpreters.

CACM-1135
modification of only one entry of the tables). ... It relies exclusively on nonprocedural representation of process as sets (tables) of relations between data and results (there are no control statements such as GO TO, etc.

CACM-1936
It is shown that significant improvements in both the average search time and the total cost can be obtained by relaxing Sussenguth's restriction that all terminal nodes lie on the same level of the tree. ... Finally, the total cost of the structure, using Sussenguth's cost criterion, is computed.

CACM-1934
An algorithm to solve this problem is presented. ... This representation reduces the choice of the best order of computation to a specific problem under the theory of graphs.

CACM-1637
It is shown how to estimate the lengths of sample records needed to use certain large sample results in measuring stability. ... Problems in the Statistical Analysis of Simulation Experiments: The Comparison of Means and the Length of Sample Records Research is continued into statistical analysis of simulation experiments containing autocorrelated time series.

CACM-1401
They are resolved computationally using the quasilinerization technique, a quadratically convergent successive approximation scheme related to the Newton-Raphson-Kantorovich method. ... Quasilinearization and the Calculation of Eigenvalues Several eigenvalue problems for systems of ordinary differential equations are considered.

CACM-1301
On ALGOL I/O Conventions.

CACM-2836
The method may be applied to problems involving probabilistic parsing or combinatorial optimization. ... An algorithm is presented for constructing the optimal derivation tree having the same structure as a given weighted derivation tree.

CACM-1050
A Parts Breakdown Technique Using <B>List</B> Structures <B>List</B> structured parts breakdown is proposed and discussed. ... Implementation facts are presented on operating program using these techniques.

CACM-1890
Each road is segmented into blocks of several ten-meter lengths and is represented by a bidirectional <B>list</B> in computer memory. ... traffic simulation, traffic flow, traffic network traffic control, traffic density, intersection, signal setting, vehicle, road network, <B>list</B> structure, computer simulation 3.

CACM-1654
A University's Educational Program in Computer Science After a review of the power of contemporary computers, computer science is defined in several ways. ... The appendices include syllabic of Ph.

CACM-3140
It is felt that ease of formal verification should not dominate program language design. ... Furthermore the absence of continuity, the inevitability of change, and the complexity of specification of significantly many real programs make the form al verification process difficult to justify and manage.

CACM-3105
The constraints are stated declaratively, and can be enforced by static checking similar to type checking. ... This paper shows how to extend programming languages to provide controlled sharing.

CACM-1014
It is natural therefore to look to the computer to handle the bulk of work involved in computing the interactions. ... Even though the experimenter may not be interested in these interactions it is impossible to ignore them in most experimental designs because of the problem of getting error terms.

CACM-3037
The method has the same arithmetic complexity as the algorithm presented by Mairson [6]; however, our version is perhaps simpler and more elegant. ... The algorithm executes in time proportional to n (assuming that multiplication of integers not larger than n can be performed in unit time).

CACM-1013
Computer programs are described and empirical results given. ... The "minimization" is achieved by repetitively evaluating a nonlinear set of equations.

CACM-2536
Telecommunications Using a Front-End Minicomputer The use of a front-end minicomputer to provide varied remote terminal access to a large scale computer is considered. ... The problems of embedding telecommunications I/O within an operating system are discussed, and it is shown how the decentralization of intelligence acquired by front-end processing vastly simplifies the problem.

CACM-2323
Toward a General Theory of Special Functions A <B>list</B> of a number of natural developments for the field of algebraic manipulation is given. ... Then the prospects for a general theory of functions defined by ordinary differential equations are discussed.

CACM-1072
The method is applicable in any problem in which it is necessary to identify equivalence classes, given the element pairs defining the equivalence relation. ... The algorithm is based on a tree structure, and has reduced computation time by 40 percent over a previously published algorithm by identifying all equivalence classes with one scan of the EQUIVALENCE declarations.

CACM-0949
The aim is to point out that, if it is true that the grammar of a context-free language should be conceived not only as a strings-generating device but also as a method for expressing a meaning, then the grammar of ALGOL is open to some criticism. ... Integer and Signed Constants in ALGOL A few remarks are given on the relations between syntax and semantics in the programming languages.

CACM-1432
Incorporation of Nonstandard Input/Output Devices into FORTRAN Systems A FORTRAN system may readily be modified to handle input/output with nonstandard media on the same basis on which it handles the standard media. ... This is done by providing a character-handling subroutine suited to the nonstandard medium and arranged to be called by an otherwise unused output statement type or unit number.

CACM-2989
The concept of a register life is in troduced, and used to answer questions like: How many registers are used simultaneously? How many would be sufficient all of the time? Most of the time? What would the overhead be if the number of registers were reduced? What are registers used for during their lives? The paper also discusses the problem of detecting desirable but non-existing instructions. ... Experimental results are presented, obtained by analyzing 41 programs running on the DEC system 10 ISP.

CACM-2219
The algorithm has been implemented in a general purpose operating system, and it has provided significantly better service to interactive and to batch jobs than the previous scheduler. ... Priority changes dynamically as a function of the difference between the service promised to the user by the policy function and the service he actually receives.

CACM-2916
These conclusions are supported with empirical evidence and a theoretical analysis of the average behavior of the algorithm. ... A Fast String Searching Algorithm An algorithm is presented that searches for the location, "i," of the first occurrence of a character string, "pat," in another string, "string.

CACM-2196
Only for special forms of the problem or for problems with a moderate number of points can it be solved exactly, even if very large amounts of computer time are used. ... A Man-Machine Approach Toward Solving the Traveling Salesman Problem The traveling salesman problem belongs to an important class of scheduling and routing problems.

CACM-1974
Logic errors discovered through NEATER2 logical analysis are discovered much more economically than is possible through compilation and trial runs. ... NEATER2: A PL/I Source Statement Reformatter NEATER2 accepts a PL/I source program and operates on it to produce a reformatted version.

CACM-2625
A computer using capability-based addressing may be substantially superior to present systems on the basis of protection, simplicity of programming conventions, and efficient implementation. ... The scheme uses a main memory hash table for obtaining a segment's location in main memory given its unique code.

CACM-2711
Typical evaluation results are shown, demonstrating the usefulness of the model. ... An approach based on space density computations is used to choose an optimum indexing vocabulary for a collection of documents.

CACM-3201
Symbolic Manipulation of Poisson Series   Poisson series of three variables are manageable symbolically through as a set of formal subroutines written partially in the IBM 7094 machine language, but to be called in the FORTRAN language for use in Fortran programs. ... The routines are entirely self-contained subroutines and require only standard Fortran input/output units 5 and 6; they are design to avoid waste and overflow of core storage space.

CACM-2970
This method includes a test to check the normality assumption on which the sequential procedure relies. ... Achieving Specific Accuracy in Simulation Output Analysis This paper extends the use of the regenerative property of queueing systems in the analysis of simulation output.

CACM-0477
Further Remarks on Sampling a Tape File-I.

CACM-1693
New "symbols" (underlined words in ALGOL 60) are implicitly defined by usage in other declarations. ... Constructs like the ALGOL 60 for-statements,and if-statements are not basic; they are special types of procedures.

CACM-1465
A compiler must be based on fixed conventions to preserve efficiency and reliability; empty options and default conventions violate this dictum. ... Program Translation Viewed as a General Data Processing Problem Efficiency dictates that the overall effectiveness of a compiler be increased by all means available.

CACM-0320
Logic tables are two-dimensional in nature, enabling us to fully express and consider both the sequential and parallel aspects of logic. ... Then the logic structure of a vending machine is given in which two logic tables are used.

CACM-1638
The expected length of the j-th sequence is determined to be F times a j-th degree polynomial in e, such that the value of this polynomial approaches 2 as j approaches infinity. ... Recursive formulas are obtained for both the mean and the standard deviation of the length of the j-th sequence.

CACM-2499
The general suggestions for allocation and accounting are applied to this question, and some details provided for the case of a monitor which controls a virtual-memory machine. ... Allocation of resources is closely connected to accounting for those resources, raising the problems of repeatability, minimal uncharged overhead, and relative weighting of charges for dependent resources.

CACM-2383
Music and Computer Composition The problem discussed is that of simulating human composition of Western popular music by computer and some relevant theories of music and harmony are given. ... Several previous computer compositions are discussed, including the ILLIAC Suite.

CACM-2151
User Program Measurement in a Time-Shared Environment A general discussion of the measurement of software systems is followed by a description of a hardware and software scheme for measuring user programs in a time-shared environment. ... A scenario showing the system in use is presented.

CACM-1433
The number of repetitions of a certain transfer of data from tape to core memory is considered. ... After some simplification, the problem is restated in a general way.

CACM-0726
A General Program for the Analysis of Square and Rectangular Lattice Designs This paper describes a general-purpose program that will handle those incomplete block designs known as square and rectangular lattices. ... Flow diagrams are given so that the method of calculation may be programmed for any digital computer.

CACM-2998
An Empirical Study of <B>List</B> Structure in Lisp Static measurements of the <B>list</B> structure of five large Lisp programs are reported and analyzed in this paper. ... Linearization of lists, whereby successive cdrs (or cars) are placed in consecutive memory locations whenever possible, greatly strengthens the observed regularity of <B>list</B> structure.

CACM-1052
This may produce a less accurate sum as the number of intervals is increased. ... Thus, the extensive successive truncations are eliminated.

CACM-2877
A Program Data Flow Analysis Procedure The global data relationships in a program can be exposed and codified by the static analysis methods described in this paper. ... A procedure is given which determines all the definitions which can possibly "reach" each node of the control flow graph of the program and all the definitions that are "live" on each edge of the graph.

CACM-0655
COMIT as an IR Language Many of the features that make COMIT a good all around symbol manipulation language also render it well suited to various types of information retrieval programs. ... Presented here is a general discussion of this unique and different programming language and an examination of some of its applications.

CACM-2456
It is also shown that any flowcharts can be converted to a well-formed flowchart by node splitting. ... Practical implications are discussed.

CACM-2752
Generation of All the Cycles of a Graph from a Set of Basic Cycles [H] (Algorithm 492).

CACM-1862
Consequently, in the absence of conscious government emphasis on strengthening computing capabilities, future progress may be retarded. ... This situation is by no means attributable to those responsible for computing developments, who strive for excellence; rather the "system" is hard to over-come.

CACM-3000
They provide new empirical evidence of certain aspects of the construction and behavior of real programs, and some of their implications for the design of virtual memory systems are presented and discussed. ... The results are presented in terms of Johnston's contour model and a simple abstract machine.

CACM-0598
The COBOL Librarian - A Key to Object Program Efficiency Many answers to the question "How may a COBOL Compiler be forced into the generation of an efficient object program?" The purpose of this article is to present one possible answer: the creation and full utilization of a well-constructed COBOL Library.

CACM-1379
A Final Solution to the Dangling Else of ALGOL 60 and Related Languages The dangling else problem consists of a class of potential ambiguities in ALGOL-like conditional statements whose basic form is "if B1 then if B2 then S1 else S2" where B1 and B2 are Boolean expressions and S1 and S2 are basic statements. ... Existing solutions to the problem are either ambiguous or unnecessarily restrictive.

CACM-1908
Time-Sharing and Batch-Processing: An Experimental Comparison of Their Values in a Problem - Solving Situation An experimental comparison of problem-solving using time-sharing and batch-processing computer systems conducted at MIT is described in this paper. ... Statistically and logically significant results indicate equal cost for usage of the two computer systems; however, a much higher level of performance is attained by time-sharing users.

CACM-2710
A syntax is given, and suggestions are made for alternative syntaxes, including a syntax based on English key words for users with limited mathematical background. ... Specifying Queries as Relational Expressions: The SQUARE Data Sublanguage This paper presents a data sublanguage called SQUARE, intended for use in ad hoc, interactive problem solving by non-computer specialists.

CACM-2733
These methods involve the use of ambiguous context-free grammars together with rules to resolve syntactic ambiguities. ... Deterministic Parsing of Ambiguous Grammars Methods of describing the syntax of programming languages in ways that are more flexible and natural than conventional BNF descriptions are considered.

CACM-2729
Ho. ... C.

CACM-1633
Three variations are described. ... If the roots are simple, it is shown that under appropriate conditions, two of the variations are cubically convergent.

CACM-3043
These processes communicate and synchronize by means of procedure calls and guarded regions. ... Distributed Processes: A Concurrent Programming Concept A language concept for concurrent processes without common variables is introduced.

CACM-2707
Backtrack Programming Techniques The purpose of this paper is twofold. ... Second, it is shown how the use of macros can considerably shorten the computation time in many cases.

CACM-2354
Two other problems related to the cosine transformation have also been trouble some. ... Implementing Clenshaw-Curtis Quadrature, II Computing the Cosine Transformation In a companion paper to this, "I Methodology and Experiences," the automatic Clenshaw-Curtis quadrature scheme was described and how each quadrature formula used in the scheme requires a cosine transformation of the integrand values was shown.

CACM-0397
Since this card format is sufficient to identify the material normally associated with reference files for books, articles, programming terms, hardware terms, equipment, machine systems, abbreviations, etc. ... The reference material includes basically an index, title, source, class, summary and cross reference for each entry.

CACM-1976
The method which, in its degenerate case, becomes the conventional secondary index filing scheme works similarly but has the following advantages: (1) the elimination of multiple accesses in many cases; (2) the elimination of false drops; (3) the elimination of computer time to perform intersection of key sets each qualified for one secondary index field only; and (4) the avoidance of long strings of keys when an index field appearing in a query has very few possible values. ... Multi-attribute Retrieval with Combined Indexes In this paper a file organization scheme designed to replace the use of the popular secondary index filing scheme (or inverted files on secondary key fields) is described.

CACM-0282
This paper evaluates these two procedures on the basis of expected loss of computer time and develops a decision rule for selecting the optimum procedure. ... Where an error occurs in writing a record, a programmed error routine may either bypass some or all of the area on tape or try to rewrite the record on the same area.

CACM-2883
Some experimental results are given; these show how various information about the shape of the contour of an object can be embedded in the figure of merit, thus allowing the extraction of contours from noisy picture and the separation of touching objects. ... Moreover, if heuristic search methods are used, the computing time will depend on the amount of noise in the picture.

CACM-3162
On Improving the Worst Case Running Time of the Boyer-Moore String Matching Algorithm It is shown how to modify the Boyer-Moore string matching algorithm so that its worst case running time is linear even when multiple occurrences of the pattern are present in the text.

CACM-0934
Gauss's Method (Algorithm 107).

CACM-0614
Simpson's Integration (Algorithm 84).

CACM-0552
Gauss's Method (Algorithm 107).

CACM-0541
Simpson's Integration (Algorithm 84).

CACM-0502
Simpson's Integration (Algorithm 84).

CACM-0446
Simpson's Integration (Algorithm 84).

CACM-3002
This model has already been used in the optimization of library routines' storage at a large scale operating system. ... The model that is presented in this paper, both as a nonlinear programming model and a mixed integer programming model, is a very general one; several types of file systems may be derived from it by an appropriate selection of its parameters.

CACM-2358
The Multics Virtual Memory: Concepts and Design As experience with use of on-line operating systems has grown, the need to share information among system users has become increasingly apparent. ... Usually, sharing is accomplished by allowing several users to share data via input and output of information stored in files kept in secondary storage.

CACM-1231
Peephole Optimization Redundant instructions may be discarded during the final stage of compilation by using a simple optimizing technique called peephole optimization. ... The method is described and examplesare given.

CACM-2911
Anomalous Behavior of the Fifty-Percent Rule in Dynamic Memory Allocation This paper reports simulation data showing that, in dynamic memory allocation, the average free-to-allocated-block ratio can differ considerably and in both directions from the predictions of the 50 percent rule. ... The simulations show that allocation efficiency depends strongly on the residence time distribution; efficiency decreases as the distribution's coefficient of variation increases.

CACM-2357
MUX, a Simple Approach to On-Line Computing An on-line system operating as part of a normal batch system for the CDC 6600 computer is described. ... The system, which required one man-year for initial software implementation, although basically simple, provides the necessary elements to input and modify files, submit them for batch execution, and provide results at the user's terminal.

CACM-1195
The program are note-worthy in that they create fixed length logical records and fixed length blocks from variable length source data, and format the output for optimization of processing on the IBM 7090 system. ... UPLIFTS-University of Pittsburgh Linear File Tandem System A series of computer programs has been developed and is now operational for processing the National Aeronautics and Space Administration linear file system on an IBM 1401-7090 combined data processing system.

CACM-3008
The combinatorial problem of storing arrays as various kinds of <B>list</B> structures is examined. ... Preserving Average Proximity in Arrays Programmers and data structure designers are often forced to choose between alternative structures.

CACM-2373
Relations between the average working-set size, the missing-page rate, and the interreference-interval distribution may be derived both from time-average definitions and from ensemble-average (statistical) definitions. ... The relation to LRU (least recently used) paging is characterized.

CACM-1154
Multi-Tape and Infinite-State Automata -- A Survey A survey of machines which are more powerful than finite automata and less powerful than general Turing machines is presented. ... Intermediate machines can be created by adjoining on infinite-state memory to a finite-state machine and then performing any or all of the following: (1) restrict the manner in which the unbounded portion of the memory can be accessed, (2) bound the number of steps allowed for a computation by some increasing recursive function of the length of the input, (3) restrict the total amount of memory available in the same manner.

CACM-1197
This slowly converging method (the Quotient-Difference (Q-D) algorithm) provides starting values for a Newton or a Bairstow algorithm for more rapid convergence. ... Necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of the Q-D scheme are not completely known; however, failure may occur when zeros have equal, or nearly equal magnitudes.

CACM-1462
This implies that all applications-no matter how large, complex or time consuming-must operate under (or, more precisely, on top of) the standard system. ... Large applications require supervisory monitors which handle problems similar to those of the operating systems, but at a different level.

CACM-1488
With inputs in standard form, as defined in the paper, the programming of any decision table can be done with one or two FORTRAN statements, or with two COBOL statements, if the COMPUTE verb is available in the COBOL processor. ... It is shown that the suggested procedure is easily implemented in ALGOL.

CACM-1868
This paper is addressed toward the difficulty of obtaining correctly keypunched and key verified data and an alternative method is suggested in which the computer itself is used to rule out the possibility of errors in input. ... This technique is explained and illustrated by reference to a working program which involves essentially two phases: in the first phase errors are detected by the machine, and subsequently, in the second phase, they are corrected by it.

CACM-2452
Evaluation and Selection of File Organization-A Model and System This work first discusses the factors that affect file (data base) organization performance, an elusive subject, and then presents a methodology, a model and a programmed system to estimate primarily total storage costs and average access time of several file organizations, given a specific data base, query characterization and device-related specifications. ... Based on these estimates, an appropriate file structure may be selected for the specific situation.

CACM-2351
The Optimality of Winograd's Formula.

CACM-0570
Simpson's Rule Integrator (Algorithm 103).

CACM-0016
Secant Modification of Newton's Method.

CACM-2936
Several exhibited a performance superior to that of commonly used simple linked <B>list</B> algorithms. ... In this paper a new event scheduling algorithm is presented which improves on two aspects of the best of the previously published algorithms.

CACM-0116
The Sumador Chino On a recent motor trip through Mexico, the writer came across on adding device which was referred to as a sumador chino (Chinese adder). ... A survey of the more available literature on the history of mathematics and on instruments of calculation has uncovered no reference to such a device.

CACM-2656
The standard scalar-valued curve fitting problem is discussed, as well as the fitting of open and closed curves in the plane. ... Scalar- and Planar- Valued Curve Fitting Using Splines Under Tension The spline under tension was introduced by Schweikert in an attempt to imitate cubic splines but avoid the spurious critical points they induce.

CACM-1738
These techniques are presented and are illustrated by their use in OPAK (octal package), a debugging program coded for the PDP-5/8 and the SDS-930. ... The compromise between economy of utility program core storage and incorporation of elegant debugging features is discussed.

CACM-2784
Expected Time Bounds for Selection A new selection algorithm is presented which is shown to be very efficient on the average, both theoretically and practically. ... The number of comparisons used to select the ith smallest of n numbers is n+min(i,n-i)+o(n).

CACM-2277
Finally, a description of the hardware design for implementation of the working set model is discussed and a specification of the actions taken under various conditions which may arise during the operation of the full working set model, demand paging system is given. ... Demand Paging Through Utilization of Working Sets on the MANIAC II A hardware implementation on the Maniac II computer of the working set model for demand paging, as introduced by Denning, is discussed.

CACM-1226
In many systems, the selection of an organization for the data within the file can be critical to the system's operating efficiency. ... The Organization of Structured Files A data file is an integral part of a data processing system.

CACM-1083
The typing and language rules are quite flexible and unrestrictive. ... While the compiler part is efficient, the system as a whole has much broader aspects as a tool for the study of problem solving and self-teaching systems.

CACM-1855
Techniques for keeping the size of the analysis record within reasonable limits and for avoiding the need for dynamic application of certain transformational rules are described. ... A Program for the Syntactic Analysis of English Sentences A program is described which produces syntactic analyses of English sentences with respect to a transformational grammar.

CACM-2064
Code words may describe arrays containing more codewords, thus providing all needed descriptive information for hyperstructures of any form. ... Operations on Generalized Arrays with the Genie Compiler Operations on vectors, matrices, and higher dimensional storage arrays are standard features of most compilers today.

CACM-2418
Student's t Frequency [S14] (Algorithm A465).

CACM-2294
A Bonus from van Wijngaarden's Device.

CACM-1987
Student's t-Distribution $S14) (Algorithm 395).

CACM-1986
Student's t-Quantiles $S14) (Algorithm 396).

CACM-1944
Student's t-Distribution (Algorithm 344 [S14]).

CACM-2400
It also shows how the method can be used for more general curve fitting, and gives alternative interpretations that explain the source of its efficiency. ... Use of the Hough Transformation ToDetect Lines and Curves in Pictures Hough has proposed an interesting and computationally efficient procedure for detecting lines in pictures.

CACM-1294
Note on Triple-Precision Floating-Point Arithmetic with 132-Bit Numbers In a recent paper, Gregory and Raney described a technique for double-precision floating-point arithmetic. ... Only the multiplication and the division algorithms are described, since the addition-subtraction algorithm can be obtained by a trivial modification of the algorithm in Gregory's and Raney's paper.

CACM-2371
The hypothetical application of the system to an existing network is discussed. ... A System for Interprocess Communication in a Resource Sharing Computer Network A system of communication between processes in a time-sharing system is described and the communication system is extended so that it may be used between processes distributed throughout a computer network.

CACM-1932
It is shown here that if, instead, the so-called logarithmic error is used, then a best initial fit is optimal for both types of error. ... It has been pointed out elsewhere that if relative error is used as the measure of goodness of fit, optimal results are not obtained when the initial approximation is a best fit.

CACM-1255
A Method of Data <B>List</B> Processing With Application to EEG Analysis A set of subroutines is discussed, which is designed to aid in the programming of computations on indexed lists of numbers using machine language or a symbolic assembly system. ... The most commonly performed <B>list</B> operations are outlined, and logically arranged into five groups.

CACM-0717
Partitioning Algorithms for Finite Sets The partitions of a set with n elements are represented by certain n-tuples of positive integers. ... Algorithm are described which generate without repetitions the n-tuples corresponding to: (1) all partitions of the given set, (2) all partitions of the given set into m or fewer sets (1 <= m <= n), and (3) all partitions of the given set into exactly m sets (1 <= m <= n).

CACM-2579
The paper compares register allocation based on usage counts to other commonly used register allocation techniques, and presents evidence which shows that the usage count technique is significantly better than these other techniques. ... Register Allocation Via Usage Counts This paper introduces the notion of usage counts, shows how usage counts can be developed by algorithms that eliminate redundant computations, and describes how usage counts can provide the basis for register allocation.

CACM-2830
A Practitioner's Guide to Addressing Algorithms (Corrigendum).

CACM-2243
Product Type Simpson's Integration [D1] (Algorithm A437).

CACM-1058
Simpson's Rule for Multiple Integration (Algorithm 233).

CACM-1098
5, and SLIP) A detailed comparison is presented of COMIT, IPL-V, LISP 1. ... Finally, the authors give some heuristics to aid in the selection of one of these languages for use in particular problem applications, concluding that no one of the languages considered is distinctly superior in all possible list-processing applications.

CACM-2868
Distinctive features of the design were the use of capabilities for protection, and the organization of the system into a sequence of layers, each building on the facilities provided by earlier ones and protecting itself from the malfunctions of later ones. ... There were serious problems in maintaining the protection between layers when levels were added to the memory hierarchy; these problems are discussed and a new solution is described.

CACM-1029
The key to the method is the decomposition of the given function, by introduction of intermediate variables, into a series of elementary functional steps. ... The main feature of this approach is its simplicity.

CACM-0224
Transitions are controlled by admissible state-symbol pairs which may be represented by a transition matrix. ... Sequential treatment, however, is not feasible in the case of certain optimizing processes such as recursive address calculation.

CACM-3072
The improvement is greatest under a heavy I/O demand workload. ... Feedback Coupled Resource Allocation Policies in the Multiprogramming- Multiprocessor Computer System Model studies of some integrated, feedback-driven scheduling systems for multiprogrammed- multiprocessor computer systems are presented.

CACM-1265
On the Relative Efficiencies of Context-Free Grammar Recognizers A number of diverse recognition procedures that have been proposed for parsing sentences with respect to a context-free grammar are described in this paper by means of a common device. ... Empirical comparison of the recognition of more realistic programming languages such as LISP and ALGOL has been made by means of a program which simulates the Turing Machine on the Univac M-460 computer.

CACM-2777
These restrictions eliminate programming techniques used by Dijkstra and others since the first introduction of the semaphore concept. ... It also discusses the need for the generalized operators suggested by Patil.

CACM-2009
Simpson's Rule for Multiple Integration (Algorithm 233 $D1)).

CACM-0872
Adaptive Numerical Integration by Simpson's Rule (Algorithm 145).

CACM-0429
Adaptive Nimerical Integration by Simpson's Rule (Algorithm 145).

CACM-2266
The algorithm, which is conceptually suitable for parallel computation, determines its own starting values so that convergence to the zeros is guaranteed. ... Multiple zeros and their multiplicity are readily determined.

CACM-3039
Exclusion and synchronization constraints have been kept as weak as could be achieved; the severe complexities engendered by doing so are illustrated. ... On-the-Fly Garbage Collection: An Exercise in Cooperation As an example of cooperation between sequential processes with very little mutual interference despite frequent manipulations of a large shared data space, a technique is developed which allows nearly all of the activity needed for garbage detection and collection to be performed by an additional processor operating con-currently with the processor devoted to the computation proper.

CACM-2252
The essential points of the method are: (1) the syntax of the language is restricted insof ar as which constructs may occur on lines; (2) an internal data structure (called the skeleton) is maintained to represent the statement structure; (3) the recompilation is partially batched in the sense that recompilation of modified lines does not occur until the last of a set of editing commands has been received; and (4) the parsing and compilation are factored into two parts, that done on individual lines and that done globally to handle the relationships between the lines. ... A Method for Incrementally Compiling Languages with Nested Statement Structure A method of incremental compilation is presented which applies especially to programming languages in which statements can be nested (such as Algol and PL/I).

CACM-0696
A large capacity RCA 366 Data Disc File is used to store information required to provide up-to-date information in response to inquiries received from remotely located Inquiry Stations. ... An Automatic Data Acquisition and Inquiry System Using Disk Files Lockheed Missiles and Space Company has installed a large-scale Automatic Data Acquisition (ADA) system which ties together the Company's manufacturing facilities located in Van Nuys and Sunnyvale, California.

CACM-3059
Models for Parallel Processing WIthin Programs: Application to CPU:I/O and I/O:I/O Overlap Approximate queueing models for internal parallel processing by individual programs in a multiprogrammed system are developed in this paper. ... The percentage performance improvement from CPU:I/O overlap is found to be greatest for systems which are in approximate CPU:I/O utilization balance and for low degrees of multiprogramming.

CACM-2914
Use of the LRU Stack Depth Distribution for Simulation of Paging Behavior Two families of probability distributions were needed for use by a virtual memory simulation model: headway between page fault distributions, and working set size distributions. ... Simple expressions for the computation of both kinds of distributions are given.

CACM-0637
The reduction in programming time and the improvement in documentation of the system were very significant. ... The 1401 compiler, which runs on the 7090 and produces 1401 programs, was described in the NELIAC language and generated with 7090 NELIAC system.

CACM-1828
It is assumed that the data base can be represented as a graph. ... Methods for synchronization of processes are examined; their validity is discussed and their performance compared.

CACM-2421
Because of the <B>list</B> processing procedures used, only a single pass through the XY display file is required when generating the binary image and only a slight increase in execution time over the fully buffered core results. ... The scan conversion algorithm described here uses a linked <B>list</B> data structure to process the lines of the drawing in strips corresponding to groups of scan lines.

CACM-1387
Solution of Systems of Polynomial Equations By Elimination The elimination procedure as described by Williams has been coded in LISP and FORMAC and used in solving systems of polynomial equations. ... It is found that the method is very effective in the case of small systems, where it yields all solutions without the need for initial estimates.

CACM-2286
The technique given generalize easily to the evaluation of many nonrational expressions. ... An automatic error analysis technique is given for determining, directly from the results of a trial low-precision interval arithmetic calculation, just how much precision and data accuracy are required to achieve a desired final accuracy.

CACM-2878
The optimal joining policy is one of arriving users who may join the system at some of its queues is a control limit policy, with a single control number for any possible queue and the user's class; a newly arriving user will join a queue that is not filled up to the control number corresponding to this queue and the user's class. ... In this paper control numbers, as well as lower and upper bounds for the control numbers and the capacities of the system's queues, are derived.

CACM-2227
Finally, some conclusions relating to general programming methodology are drawn. ... A systematic technique is described for constructing the program proof during the process of coding it, in such a way as to prevent the intrusion of logical errors.

CACM-2465
Gaussian Quadrature formulas for Bromwich's Integral [D1] (Algorithm A453).

CACM-1298
Adaptive Numerical Integration by Simpson's Rule (Algorithm 145 [D1]).

CACM-2178
A Language Extension for Graph Processing and Its Formal Semantics A simple programming language "extension," Graspe, for processing directed graphs is defined. ... The definition of Graspe here is solely in terms of its semantics; that is, the data structures and operations are defined precisely but without assignment of a particular syntactic representation.

CACM-1698
Using the model we answer questions like: How many processes are suspended waiting for console input? What is the maximum rate at which a process can execute? What bounds can be set on overall buffer requirements? Answers to these and similar questions are needed in certain aspects of operating system design. ... " No claim is made that a virtual console behaves like any actual console, but the entire collection of virtual consoles models the collection of actual consoles.

CACM-1025
Since the definition of the elements of the language is recursive it seemed most desirable to design the syntax checker as a set of mutually recursive processors tied together by subroutines which perform certain bookkeeping functions. ... A Method of Syntax-Checking ALGOL 60 A syntax checker was designed based on the syntax of ALGOL as described in the ALGOL 60 Report [Communications of the ACM, May, 1960].

CACM-1146
An Efficient Composite Formula for Multidimensional Quadrature A (2s+1)-point second-degree quadrature formula for integration over an s-dimensional hyper-rectangle is presented. ... When a large volume is subdivided into congruent rectangular subdivisions, only one point is required in each interior subdivision to achieve second-degree accuracy.

CACM-0536
If the solution of the above equation for Zm, Zm=N(Z1,. ... ;A1,.

CACM-0441
Topological Sorting of Large Networks Topological Sorting is a procedure required for many problems involving analysis of networks. ... A PERT network of 30,000 activities can be ordered in less than one hour of machine time.

CACM-0865
It is shown that given N records in memory storage, records are sequenced using 1+log2 N tests per record, that initial string lengths will average 2N for random input records, and that reading, writing and processing can be accomplished simultaneously if the computer permits such overlap. ... Internal and Tape Sorting Using the Replacement-Selection Technique A general technique for sequencing unsorted records is presented.

CACM-2380
These include specifications for a powerful multiprocess large memory virtual machine, intimate terminal interaction, comprehensive uniform file and I/O capabilities, and clean flexible system structure. ... TENEX, a Paged Time Sharing System for the PDP-10 TENEX is a new time sharing system implemented on DEC PDP-10 augmented by special paging hardware developed at BBN.

CACM-1516
The system will also automatically decode the compressed information on an item-by-item basis when it is required. ... Automatic Data Compression The "information explosion" noted in recent years makes it essential that storage requirements for all information be kept to a minimum.

CACM-2098
t-Test Probabilities (Algorithm 321); Student's t-Distribution (Algorithm 344).

CACM-2534
It effectively demonstrates that compilers can provide better diagnostic assistance than is customarily offered, even when a sophisticated source language is employed, and that this assistance need not be prohibitively costly. ... The design objective was to provide a maximum degree of diagnostic assistance in a batch processing environment.

CACM-2194
This paper demonstrates that a wide class of problems of this type can be formulated as covering problems solvable by means of elementary arithmetic operations on the column vectors of a ternary matrix. ... How To Keep the Addresses Short An algorithm is presented for minimizing the sum of the lengths of the blocks of coding produced by an assembler or compiler when (1) the length of each computer instruction is assumed to be either "long" or "short" ("long," if the memory location addressed is more than a predetermined distance from the current location; "short," otherwise), and (2) there are blocks of instructions whose beginnings (origins) are separated by prespecified amounts.

CACM-1565
The program is used at the Basser Computing Department, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia, to process text for eight different compilers. ... It provides all features normally associated with a macro facility, plus the ability to make arbitrary transformations of the argument strings.

CACM-2787
It is a development of that described by John Lions. ... It has been generalized and adapted to fit into the complete timetabling process; to use a more compact data representation and more efficient processing techniques; to take fuller advantage of possible available previous knowledge about the matrix.

CACM-1489
To show how quickly tabular techniques make an unfamiliar system manageable, a detailed example and a self-test are provided. ... Data, Documentation and Decision Tables In business data processing systems, it is necessary to be able to define and document data, files, programs and decision rules in a way that adequately represents both (1) their changing information content, and (2) their continuous interaction.

CACM-1711
Focus is also on trouble spots in contracting for data processing services, in automating record keeping operations, in deciding whether or not to automate certain operations, and in complying with statutes and regulation relating to record keeping. ... When Your Computer Needs a Lawyer Possible liability for negligence, for other torts (such as slander of credit) and for liability under theories of express or implied warranty (guarantees) are discussed, and legal complications are explained, so that users, operators, owners, and leasors of computers may be alerted to potential legal problems.

CACM-0103
To meet the need for a quick, accurate, uniform operator test and training aid, the authors have developed COPE (Console Operator Proficiency Examination), outlined below. ... While this examination is programmed specifically for the IBM 705 Model II with two Tape Record Coordinators, similar programs could be developed for other computers.

CACM-1706
These are assembled together into conditional expressions which are to be used to provide alternative computational patterns. ... The class of things which may be assigned to an identifier can be restricted by a procedure expressed in the notation.

CACM-2824
An Improvement to Martin's Algorithm for Computation of Linear Precedence Functions.

CACM-2242
Product Type Two-Point Gauss-Legendre-Simpson's Integration [D1] (Algorithm A438).

CACM-2241
Product Type Three-point Gauss-Legendre-Simpson's Integration [D1] (Algorithm A439).

CACM-0788
Muller's Method for Finding Roots of an Arbitrary Function (Algorithm 196).

CACM-1199
Experiments performed with this model, the results of the experiments, and the application of the results are discussed. ... In this paper, a mathematical model of the Lockheed Central Computer Center is formulated that describes the operation of a computation center in terms of information nets, decision processes, and control functions.

CACM-1460
Finally, the implication of meta-assemblers on compiler design is discussed. ... The meta-assembler is defined and factors which contributed to its evolution are presented.

CACM-3046
The proposed method is simpler than Ahrens and Dieter's method. ... The computational times for the proposed method remain fairly constant for medium and large values of a and are superior to times obtained by Ahrens and Dieter's method for all values of a.

CACM-0944
Storage and Search Properties of a Tree-Organized Memory System A memory with <B>list</B> properties [1] may be used to construct numeric, alphabetic or alphanumeric trees. ... The purpose of this paper is to examine the storage and search properties of a tree-organized storage system assuming that a memory possessing certain <B>list</B> properties is available.

CACM-1787
Use of Transition Matrices in Compiling An algorithms is described which constructs from a suitable BNF grammar an efficient left-right recognizer for sentences of the corresponding language. ... The type of recognizer, used in a number of compilers, operates with a pushdown stack and with a transition matrix.

CACM-2837
A new upper bound for Vi(n) improves the bound given by the standard Hadian-Sobel algorithm by a generalization of the Kirkpatrick-Hadian-Sobel algorithm, and extends Kirkpatrick's method to a much wider range of application. ... New Upper Bounds for Selection The worst-case minimum number of comparisons complexity Vi(n) of the i-th selection problem is considered.

CACM-1844
A crosspoint switching network allows any such disk drive to be connected to any computer. ... A Modular Computer Sharing System An alternative approach to the design and organization of a general purpose interactive multiterminal computing system is presented.

CACM-2686
An Approximate Method for Generating Asymmetric Random Variables Tukey's lambda distribution is generalized to provide an algorithm for generating values of unimodal asymmetric random variables. ... This algorithm has the same advantages as the symmetric random variable generator previously given by the authors, except that the addition of another parameter complicates the problem of finding the parameter values to fit a distribution.

CACM-1542
A Microprogrammed Implementation of EULER on IBM System/360 Model 30 An experimental processing system for the algorithmic language EULER has been implemented in microprogramming on an IBM System/360 Model 30 using a second Read-Only Storage unit. ... The system is described and results are given in terms of microprogram and main storage space required and compiler and interpreter performance obtained.

CACM-2200
Algorithms for division yielding complement results are derived for numbers represented in any base greater than one. ... On Complement Division The division algorithm theorem is expressed in a form that permits it to serve as the basis for devising division operations that produce both quotient and remainder in complement form.

CACM-2821
These standards have proved extremely valuable in practice and have reduced the cost and time to produce and maintain large software systems that have been deployed in live multiple customer environments. ... These standards constrain code to be developed in a "structured" form for both data and control structures.

CACM-3014
Finally, it is shown how the intermittent-assertion method can be applied to prove the validity of program transformations and the correctness of continuously operating programs. ... The method, introduced by Burstall, promises to provide a valuable complement to the more conventional methods.

CACM-3125
We propose to do both at once and to move each expression directly to the entrance of the outermost loop in which it is invariant. ... e.

CACM-1946
Results of tests are reported in detail. ... algorithm is somewhat faster.

CACM-2748
It is related to Bell's notion of threaded code but requires less space and is more amenable to machine independent implementations. ... Indirect Threaded Code An efficient arrangement for interpretive code is described.

CACM-2501
This paper describes the external appearance of WYLBUR as well as its internal structure. ... A powerful method for addressing text by content is provided.

CACM-1506
The LACONIQ Monitor: Time Sharing for Online Dialogues The LACONIQ (Laboratory Computer Online Inquiry) Monitor was developed primarily to support non-numerical applications such as retrieval from very large files by means of a "dialogue" between a system user and a retrieval application. ... The program segments called into execution by the remote CRT consoles are invariably run to completion rather than "rolled-out" to be brought back at a later time.

CACM-1790
Muller's Method for Finding roots of an Arbitrary Function (Algorithm 196 [C5]).

CACM-1713
On Overcoming High-Priority Paralysis in Multiprogramming Systems: A Case His tory High-priority paralysis is the degradation that can occur in multiprogramming systems when scheduling is based primarily on preassigned priorities. ... It can be alleviated by modifying the scheduling algorithm to maximize the number of programs active at one time.

CACM-2657
the program thus obtained always satisfies the specification. ... e.

CACM-1834
This involves the elucidation of sets of axioms and rules of inference which can be used in proofs of the properties of computer programs. ... Finally, it is argued that important advantages, both theoretical and practical, may follow from a pursuance of these topics.

CACM-2110
In an empirical comparison it appears to be superior to the top-down and bottom-up algorithms studied by Griffiths and Petrick. ... It is similar to both Knuth's LR(k) algorithm and the familiar top-down algorithm.

CACM-1671
The rule application facility described in detail was implemented by translating linguistic rules to rules in FLIP, a format-directed <B>list</B> processor embedded in LISP. ... The system is written in BBN LISP on the Scientific Data System 940 computer and is designed to be used on-line in interactive fashion, with control returned to the user after each command is executed.

CACM-2822
General permission to republish, but not for profit, all or part of this material is granted provided that ACM's copyright notice is given and that reference is made to the publication, to its data of issue, and to the fact that reprinting privileges were granted by permission of the Association for Computing Machinery. ... Homilies for Humble Standards Copyright 1976, Association for Computing Machinery, Inc.

CACM-2968
e. ... A Comparison of Tree-Balancing Algorithms Several algorithms-height-balance (i.

CACM-0950
By this is meant that serial algorithms ought to be replaced by algorithm which consist of several subtasks which can be computed without knowledge of the results of the other subtasks. ... As an example, a method is proposed for "parallelizing" the numerical integration of an ordinary differential equation, which process, by all standard methods, is entirely serial.

CACM-0409
CL-1, An Environment for a Compiler A flexible, large-scale programming system to facilitate the solution of information processing problems and to provide intercommunication between programs and/or programmers has been developed and realized on the IBM 709/7090 computer. ... Both data and algorithms may be expressed in a family of command and descriptive languages.

CACM-2145
HELP helps automate a design stage one step closer to production than logical design. ... HELP employs two methods of wiring.

CACM-1111
A Class of Iterative Techniques For the Factorization of Polynomials* A method of iteration is developed in terms of a function of somewhat arbitrary character. ... Sufficient conditions are given for convergence of the process, yielding factors of arbitrary degree for polynomials in one variable.

CACM-2927
This upper bound is shown to be equivalent to the theoretical lower bound for sieve methods without preprocessing. ... Some New Upper Bounds on the Generation of Prime Numbers Given an integer N, what is the computational complexity of finding all the primes less than N? A modified sieve of Eratosthenes using doubly linked lists yields an algorithm of O(N) arithmetic complexity.

CACM-1540
If consistent with the objective of balanced sections, these preferences will be honored. ... An Algorithm for Class Scheduling With Section Preference An algorithm for assignment of students to classes in a fixed time schedule that allows students to give a preference for sections within courses is given.

CACM-2309
Computers in the Instructional Process: Directions for Research and Development A survey is given of computer applications to the instructional process which suggests how the computer professional can contribute to effective educational systems.

CACM-2886
Practical questions, such as the relative efficiency of different evaluation schemes, and the ease of adapting the attribute grammar of a given programming language to the left-to-right evaluation scheme are discussed. ... Semantic Evaluation from Left to Right This paper describes attribute grammars and their use for the definition of programming languages and compilers; a formal definition of attribute grammars and a discussion of some of its important aspects are included.

CACM-1495
Solution of Transcendental Equations by Series Reversion An algorithm is developed for expressing the solution Y, of the equation F(Y) = G(X) as a power series in (X - X0) when f and g are given as power series,and the root Y0, is known at Y=X0. ... e.

CACM-1623
The problem is straightforward (although untenable by hand) but nevertheless involved an elaborate use of the FORMAC language. ... The solution of the problem using FORMAC was notable since several other methods that were tried failed.

CACM-0891
The solution, however, is quite general and is applicable to many different types of retrieval problems. ... Everyman's Information Retrieval System The information retrieval problem whose solution is presented here was posed by a technical library with limited bubget and personnel.

CACM-3088
The equations are directly applicable to any configuration consisting of sets of identical CPU's I/O processors, main storage partitions and user tasks. ... General Equations for Idealized CPU-I/O Overlap Configurations General equations are derived for estimating the maximum possible utilization of main storage partitions, CPU and I/O devices under different conditions in an idealized CPU-I/O overlap model of multiprogrammed computer systems.

CACM-2215
Application of Game Tree Searching Techniques to Sequential Pattern Recognition A sequential pattern recognition (SPR) procedure does not test all the features of a pattern at once. ... Some computer simulated experiments in character recognition are presented.

CACM-1768
A number of the routines for extracting data about a grammar, such as minimum lengths of N-derivable strings and possible prefixes, are given and may be of interest apart from their application in this particular context. ... The parser is of the "top-to-bottom" type and is recursive.

CACM-1501
An algorithm is given to obtain the eigenvectors of the 2n x 2n matrix by use of the eigenvectors of the smaller matrices. ... Eigenvectors of a 2n x 2n Matrix It has been known that the eigenvalues of a certain 2n x 2n matrix can be obtained by use of two smaller matrices of order n which can be easily constructed.

CACM-1631
The tests are described and the results of the tests are presented. ... These particular tests indicate that the numbers are satisfactory.

CACM-2343
However, it appears that no one overlay scheme contains a well-balanced combination of the most useful capabilities which are found in various existing techniques. ... g.

CACM-2532
On Harrison's Substring Testing Technique.

CACM-2355
Implementing Clenshaw-Curtis quadrature, I Methodology and Experience Clenshaw-Curtis quadrature is a particularly important automatic quadrature scheme for a variety of reasons, especially the high accuracy obtained from relatively few integrand values. ... However, it has received little use because it requires the computation of a cosine transformation and the arithmetic cost of this has been prohibitive.

CACM-1415
The basic idea was to extract the subject, verb and object (if any) of each clause and to reassemble these materials into a grammatical microsentence. ... The authors conclude that while microsentences of the quality achieved do not open up immediate prospects for improving the performance of automatic message retrieval systems, they may have practical value in man-machine systems using human monitors to select the preferred syntactic interpretation of a sentence.

CACM-2327
Toward an Automata Theory of Brains A source of ideas for automata theory-the study of the brain-has been pushed aside in mathematical development of the theory. ... This paper suggests the ways in which automata theory might evolve over the next 25 years if it is to contribute to an understanding of how the brain processes information.

CACM-3082
The algorithm is then specialized for synchronizing physical clocks, and a bound is derived on how far out of synchrony the clocks can become. ... The use of the total ordering is illustrated with a method for solving synchronization problems.

CACM-2920
The bipartite graph representation of this game may then be used to construct explicitly the set of safe states and to study their properties. ... When each process specifies its future needs by a flowchart of need-defined steps, a global approach to the phenomenon and its in terpretation as a game between the operating system and the processes allows formalization of risk and safety concepts.

CACM-2738
It develops a method for evaluating the cost of requiring programmers to work with an abstraction of a real machine. ... Use of the Concept of Transparency in the Design of Hierarchically Structured Systems This paper deals with the design of hierarchically structured programming systems.

CACM-3177
How to Share a Secret In this paper we show how to divide data D into n pieces in such a way that D is easily reconstructable from any k pieces, but even complete knowledge of k - 1 pieces reveals olutely no information about D. ... This technique enables the construction of robust key management schemes for cryptographic systems that can function securely and reliably even when misfortunes destroy half the pieces and security breaches expose all but one of the remaining pieces.

CACM-1470
Many examples, frequently from <B>list</B> processing languages, illustrate the forms described. ... Subroutines may be entered explicitly, by execute call, or by function composition.

CACM-1386
The algorithm consists of factoring single-variable instances of the given polynomial by Kronecker's method and introducing the remaining variables by interpolation. ... The algorithm promises sufficient power to be used efficiently in an online system for symbolic mathematics.

CACM-1910
An Algorithm for Solving a Special Class of Tridiagonal Systems of Linear Equations An algorithm is presented for solving a system of linear equation Bu=k where B is tridiagonal and of a special form. ... In addition, explicit formulas for the inverse and determinant of the matrix B are given.

CACM-2255
Comments on Moorer's Music and Computer Composition.

CACM-2412
Comment on Brent's Scatter Storage Algorithm.

CACM-2067
Comment on Lawler's Multilevel Boolean Minimization.

CACM-0867
Least Squares Fitting of Planes to Surfaces Using Dynamic Programming Dynamic programming has recently been used by Stone, by Bellman and by Gluss to determine the closet fit of broken line segments to a curve in an interval under the constraint that the number of segments is fixed. ... In the present paper successive models are developed to extend the method to the fitting of broken plane segments to surfaces z=g(x,y) defined over certain types of subareas of the (x,y)-space.

CACM-2372
Distinguishing between data dependent and data independent decision rules enables one to perform much of the checking of security only once at translation time rather than repeatedly at execution time. ... On the Implementation of Security Measures in Information Systems The security of an information system may be represented by a model matrix whose elements are decision rules and whose row and column indices are users and data items respectively.

CACM-2033
Space/Time Trade-offs in Hash Coding with Allowable Errors In this paper trade-offs among certain computational factors a given set of messages. ... Analysis of the paradigm problem demonstrates that allowing a small number of test messages to be falsely identified as members of the given set will permit a much smaller hash area to be used without increasing reject time.

CACM-1718
"Logical" Arithmetic on Computers with Two's Complement Binary Arithmetic Algorithms are presented for multiplication and division of unsigned integer operands in which the digits normally reserved for signs participate as significant arithmetic digits with positive weight.

CACM-1528
Letter shapes are entirely described by numbers. ... The fonts include both upper and lower case Roman letters, mathematical signs, and upper and lower case Greek letters.

CACM-2142
Reconstruction of Pictures from Their Projections There are situations in the natural sciences and medicine (e. ... g.

CACM-1744
Stable Numerical Methods for Obtaining the Chebyshev Solution to an Overdetermined System of Equations An implementation of Stiefel's exchange algorithm for determining a Chebyshev solution to an overdetermined system of linear equations is presented, that uses Gaussian LU decomposition with row interchanges. ... The implementation is computationally more stable than those usually given in the literature.

CACM-1282
Such a technique enables the programmer to take advantage of the most useful properties of each language while minimizing their respective disadvantages. ... The Use of FORTRAN in Subroutines with COBOL Main Programs By using the proper COBOL coding techniques and accounting for differences in storage allocation and library routines between the two languages, it is possible to write FORTRAN IV subroutines that may be called from COBOL main programs.

CACM-2273
Execution time can be considerably reduced by instantly marking rules which are not applicable (Algorithms 1 and 2) or conditions which are already tested (Algorithm 2). ... They perform the logical operations immediately rather than at the end of the interpreting process.

CACM-2222
Comment on London's Certification of Algorithm 245.

CACM-1680
Illustrations of the various applications are presented and their implications are discussed. ... It expands the power and flexibility of computer-assisted instruction by making immediately available to students, teachers, and other users, the full resources (system-cataloged programs) of the operating system.

CACM-0185
Multiprogram Scheduling Parts 1 and 2. ... A concise scheduling algorithm is described which tends to minimize the time for executing the entire pending workload (or any subset of it), subject to external constraints such as precedence, urgency, etc.

CACM-2815
The scheme is designed to work with any existing link editor or linking loader, no matter how deficient. ... High-Level Binding with Low-Level Linkers An easy to implement scheme is described by which a compiler can enforce agreement between complex data types in separately compiled modules.

CACM-1145
Since a straightforward enumerative algorithm might require 40 years of running time on a very high speed computer in order to compare two 15-node graphs, a more sophisticated approach seems called for. ... The situation is similar to that prevailing in areas such as game-playing and theorem-proving, where practical algorithms are unknown (for the interesting cases), but where various practical though only partially successful techniques are available.

CACM-1434
The effectiveness of automatic scheduling is retained without loss of the students privilege of picking favorite instructors. ... Using the technique it is possible to reduce or eliminate difficulties that result when a popular section is filled and closed before all students requesting and requiring it have been scheduled.

CACM-1200
On Reversible Subroutines and Computers that Run Backwards A computer design is describe which permits subroutines to be executed backward as well as forward, either with their instructions unchanged or replaced with conjugate instructions. ... Since these properties are analogous to certain matrix operations, a parallel nomenclature is suggested for their classification.

CACM-2835
Recursion Analysis for Compiler Optimization A relatively simple method for the detection of recursive use of procedures is presented for use in compiler optimization. ... The most common are parameters of variables assuming values of label, procedure, or Pascal's enumerated type.

CACM-2092
It is concluded that the development of Protosynthex III into a practically useful system to work with large data bases is possible but will require changes in both the data structures and the algorithms used for question answering. ... The system's data structures and their semantic organization, the deductive question-answering formalism of relational properties and complex-relation-forming operators, and the question-answering procedures which employ these features in their operation are all described and illustrated.

CACM-1609
First, course which may have their examinations scheduled at the same period are grouped together in all possible ways. ... Scheduling University Course Examinations by Computer A new approach to the problem of scheduling course examinations is presented.

CACM-1886
Generation of Optimal Code for Expressions via Factorization Given a set of expressions which are to be compiled, methods are presented for increasing the efficiency of the object code produced by first factoring the expressions, i. ... The factorization algorithms are also applicable to the problem of factoring Boolean switching expressions and of factoring polynomials encountered in symbol manipulating systems.

CACM-2962
Data include profiles of graduate students and of faculty at 60 Ph. ... Significant trends are noted and comparisons with comparable data gathered for the 1974-75 calendar year are made.

CACM-2025
Student's t-Distribution; Jacobi Polynomials; Modified Romberg Quadrature; Factorial Analysis of Variance; (Algorithms 332,344,351,359).

CACM-0796
Transfers between the core and drum stores and to and from the twin paper-tape input and output channels are all available autonomously (concurrently, time-shared). ... Multiplication and division orders are also autonomous, so that the machine may be executing up to three orders simultaneously.

CACM-1453
A Nonrecursive Method of Syntax Specification The use of the Kleene regular expression notation for describing algebraic language syntax, in particular of ALGOL, is described in this paper. ... A hand calculation result of the application of the algorithm to all of ALGOL is given, thus expressing the Revised ALGOL 1960 syntax in completely nonrecursive terms, as far as its context-free portion is concerned.

CACM-1628
The Emergence of a Profession Computer programming deals with an enormous variety of activities and is carried on by people with a great variety of backgrounds. ... In this paper, these issues are examined and some opinions about them are expressed.

CACM-1846
An abstraction of this problem is developed which admits solution for a majority of commonly encountered problems. ... Following this, the problem of dealing with simultaneous events in separate processes is introduced.

CACM-2698
The algorithm design emphasizes practical aspects which help in programming it. ... Recognition consists of a least-errors count for a corrected version of the input relative to the driver grammar.

CACM-1651
This latter (limited) use derives not at all from inherent limitations in the code itself, but from an efficiency evaluation: large LP problems would doubtless benefit from an input system more suited for bulk data handling than the input code described. ... , of row constraints.

CACM-2278
On Foster's Information Storage and Retrieval Using AVL Trees.

CACM-2256
Further Comments on Dijkstra's Concurrent Programming Control Problem.

CACM-2314
Requirements for Advanced Programming Systems for <B>List</B> Processing <B>List</B> processing systems should be designed to facilitate production of large programs to manipulate large complex symbolic data stores. ... A system view it taken, rather than focusing just on language features, since algorithms must be not only coded in a language form, but debugged, modified, made efficient, and run on data.

CACM-2939
Abstraction Mechanisms in CLU CLU is a new programming language designed to support the use of abstractions in program construction. ... By means of programming examples, the utility of the three kinds of abstractions in program construction is illustrated, and it is shown how CLU programs may be written to use and implement abstractions.

CACM-2866
Proving Monitors Interesting scheduling and sequential properties of monitors can be proved by using state variables which record the monitor's history and by defining extended proof rules for their wait and signal operations. ... These two techniques are defined, discussed, and applied to examples to prove properties such as freedom from indefinitely repeated overtaking or unnecessary waiting upper bounds on queue lengths, and historical behavior.

CACM-2112
Within the framework described string recognition and parsing may be treated as special cases of the translation problem. ... A formal procedure is given for deriving from a set of translation equations the specifications for a pushdown translator.

CACM-1270
The other provides a searching test of the reliability and efficiency of an integration procedure. ... There is a statement of the essential properties of a computer system, in order that grader programs can be effectively used.

CACM-3127
Because the system is implemented by the same software on different hardware, it has the same interface to user programs. ... Both the system and application programs which use it are written in a high-level language.

CACM-2312
On the Present and Future of Scientific Computation A pessimistic forecast is given of what can be expected to happen in the application of computers to the physical sciences.

CACM-3018
Covering Edges by Cliques with Regard to Keyword Conflicts and Intersection Graphs Kellerman has presented a method for determining keyword conflicts and described a heuristic algorithm which solves a certain combinatorial optimization problem in connection with this method. ... A relationship between this edge-clique-cover problem and the graph coloring problem is established which allows algorithms for either one of these problems to be constructed from algorithm for the other.

CACM-2162
The technique has been tested in an implementation of the <B>list</B> processing language L^6. ... An Efficient Bit Table Technique for Dynamic Storage Allocation of 2^n-word Blocks An efficient bit table technique for dynamic storage allocation of 2^n-word blocks, which requires a minimized amount of memory for bookkeeping purposes, is described.

CACM-1290
The present paper elaborates upon solutions to the problems of transparency to the basic ASCII communication control characters as outlined in the previous paper mentioned above. ... The appearance of this paper was forecast (underthe name of "second-level control") in the earlier tutorial paper, "Control Procedures for Data Communications," Task Group document X3.

CACM-2515
C. ... Nemhauser (1968) produces event-node networks which are not minimal.

CACM-1625
SURE is described, some of the problems encountered in automatic improvement at the source-language level are discussed, and further types of automatic program improvement are suggested. ... On the Automatic Simplification of Source-Language Programs Methods of simplification that can be applied automatically to programs written in an ALGOL-like language are discussed.

CACM-1408
Again, whereas the analysis of the drum scheme has a specific use, the methods underlying it have more general applicability. ... The question of the efficacy of the drum scheme is then raised.

CACM-1784
Practical Error Coefficients for Estimating Quadrature Errors for Analytic Functions All published error coefficients for estimating quadrature errors for analytic functions were computed on the assumption that the quadrature rule was exact for polynomials up to a given degree. ... Hence these errors must be taken into consideration in computing practical error coefficients.

CACM-2054
On the Feasibility of Voice Input to an On-line Computer Processing System An on-line digital computer processing system is considered in which an ordinary telephone is the complete terminal device, input to the computer being provided as a sequence of spoken words, and output to the user being audio responses from the machine. ... The feasibility of implementing such a system with a FORTRAN-like algebraic compiler as the object processor is considered.

CACM-3083
Pseudochaining is half way between open addressing and chaining. ... The efficiency of the method is derived and a tradeoff analysis is given.

CACM-1721
e. ... In addition a method is described for systematically searching for all intersection points in a prescribed rectangular area.

CACM-0284
However, its application as a mathematical device extends far beyond the confines of the original problem. ... The machine representation of the derived expression, is, by virtue of the algorithm, in a form which simplifies the task of compiling.

CACM-1468
The parallel processing simulator, originally written for an IBM 7094 system, has now been rewritten for a CDC 3600 system. ... This paper descriptive models by considering their specific application to bubble chamber pictures.

CACM-2160
The file organization being proposed is based on the atoms of a Boolean algebra generated by the queries. ... Thus, for example, the structure for retrieval on the basis of ranges of values of a given attribute would be very different from one where only retrieval on the basis of a single value is permitted.

CACM-1992
Comment on Bell's Quadratic Quotient Method for Hash Code Searching.

CACM-2648
A Design for a Number Theory Package with an Optimized Trial Division routine A number theory package is described which uses doubly linked <B>list</B> structures for storing multiprecise integers. ... An optimally coded trial division routine is also described which can be used to determine the unique factorization of large integers.

CACM-0724
Nature of the work offered and salary are principal determinants in accepting a new job. ... Programmers tend to see their colleagues in a favorable light, on the whole.

CACM-2437
General Performance Analysis of Key-to-Address Transformation Methods Using an Abstract File Concept This paper presents a new approach to the analysis of performance of the various key-to-address transformation methods. ... In this approach the keys in a file are assumed to have been selected from the key space according to a certain probabilistic selection algorithm.

CACM-1691
Lehmer, has passed the usual statistical tests for random number generators. ... H.

CACM-1324
It is concluded that the data-base question-answer has passed from initial research into the early developmental phase. ... Answering English questions by Computer: A Survey Fifteen experimental English language question-answering systems which are programmed and operating are described and reviewed.

CACM-0972
The Executive Control Program provides for the orderly transitions of control among the programming system components. ... A data link permits remote stations to send messages, status reports and inventories directly to the computer.

CACM-0462
The approach to the problem presented here centers upon the use of multiple adaptive matched filters that classify normalized signals. ... The present report fives some of the background for the application of this method.

CACM-3033
The branch-and-bound technique uses a good heuristic to direct the search, but is cluttered up by an enormous search space, since the number of solutions increases with the number of test variables according to a double exponential. ... The former technique is quite effective, but its time and space requirements are independent of how "easy" the given table is.

CACM-2285
Computer Routine for Quadratic and Linear Programming Problems [H] (Algorithm A431) A computer program based on Lemke's complementary pivot algorithm is presented. ... The program has been extensively tested on a wide range of problems and the results have been extremely satisfactory.

CACM-2555
The Recomputation Algorithm can be applied to expressions involving any variable-precision operations having O(10^(-p) + SUM{|Ei|}) error bounds, where p denotes the operation's precision and Ei denotes the error in the operation's ith argument. ... Other operations such as log, sin, and cos, which have simple series expansions, can be handled similarly.

CACM-2722
The main focus of this paper theoretical. ... An algorithm is presented to handle any general intersection query.

CACM-2451
On the other hand, it is potentially useful for the comparison it affords between observed performance and that of an intuitively attractive ideal search procedure. ... An experimental study of a small formatted file illustrates the concepts.

CACM-1454
A simple and direct language will suffice for the problem. ... The language described in this paper is used to write computer programs which test electronic equipment.

CACM-2174
The Stable Marriage Problem The original work of Gale and Shapley on an assignment method using the stable marriage criterion has been extended to find all the stable marriage assignments. ... The algorithm derived for finding all the stable marriage assignments is proved to satisfy all the conditions of the problem.

CACM-1709
A Modification of Efroymson's Technique for Stepwise Regression Analysis The computational technique conventionally used for stepwise multiple linear regression requires the storage of an n X n matrix of data. ... When the number of variables, n, is large, this requirement taxes the storage capacity of presently used machinery.

CACM-3136
Multiple-regression models predicting system cost as a function of several hardware characteristics do, however, reveal a market dichotomy. ... Single measures of price/performance such as "Grosch's Law" are shown to be so over simplified as to be meaningless.

CACM-2167
These techniques can be used to decrease thesize of an expression and make it more intelligible to a user. ... We describe several positive results about the existence of powerful simplification algorithms and the number-theoretic conjectures on which they rely.

CACM-1368
Systematic Generation of Hamiltonian Circuits For a combinatorial matrix which may specify both directed and nondirected arcs, the paper describes a computer program which generates systematically and exhaustively all the Hamiltonian circuits. ... Specific application is made to the "traveling salesman" problem.

CACM-1965
Correction to "Logical" Arithmetic on Computers with Two's Complement Binary Arithmetic.

CACM-1278
In solving non-linear boundary-value problems using quasilinearization many partial derivatives must be formed analytically and then evaluated numerically. ... Wengert's method appears very attractive from the programming viewpoint equations which might not otherwise be undertaken.

CACM-3099
New Sufficient Optimality Conditions for Integer Programming and their Application The purpose of this report is to present a new class of sufficient optimality conditions for pure and mixed integer programming problems. ... These sufficient conditions are particularly useful for the construction of difficult integer programming problems with known optimal solutions.

CACM-0617
". ... POSEIDON Any computer that forms part of a control system-whether completely automatic or partly human-must work at the same speed as the control system.

CACM-2059
The language is syntactically defined as an extension to ALGOL 60, and it is translated into ALGOL by means of a syntax-driven compiler. ... Application areas for this language are operation research, network problems, control theory, traffic problems, etc.

CACM-2035
LAP6 is used by about 2000 people in 11 countries. ... The machine, although small, aids program design by providing display scope and premarked randomly addressable LINC tapes as standard items, in an environment similar to that of a sophisticated terminal.

CACM-1854
Two programs using these instructions, written in PL360, are presented. ... The scheme includes a set of basic instructions for the generation, termination, and synchronization of parallel processes.

CACM-1567
On the Representation of Symmetric Polynomials Relations are given between certain symmetric polynomials in the light of the theory of the symmetric group. ... A generalization of Graeffe's root-squaring technique for the determination of the roots of a polynomial is suggested.

CACM-1650
These are performed simultaneously; (4) the calculation of main effect or interaction means. ... A Unifying Computational Method for the Analysis of Complete Factorial Experiments A computational method which may be used for the calculation of sums of squares in the analysis of variance of complete factorial experiments and in the computation of main effect or interaction means is described.

CACM-2956
Some Ideas on Data Types in High-Level Languages A number of issues are explored concerning the notion that a data type is a set of values together with a set of primitive operations on those values. ... Among these are the need for a notation for iterating over the elements of any finite set (instead of the more narrow for i:= 1 to n notation), the use of the domain of an array as a data type, the need for a simple notation for allowing types of parameters to be themselves parameters (but in a restrictive fashion), and resulting problems with conversion of values from one type to another.

CACM-2597
Monitors: An Operating System Structuring Concept This paper develops Brinch-Hansen's concept of a monitor as a method of structuring an operating system. ... It introduces a form of synchronization, describes a possible method of implementation in terms of semaphores and gives a suitable proof rule.

CACM-1826
A LISP Garbage-Collector for Virtual-Memory Computer Systems In this paper a garbage-collection algorithm for list-processing systems which operate within very large virtual memories is described. ... Because free storage is never really exhausted, the decision to garbage collect is not easily made; therefore, various criteria of this decision are discussed.

CACM-2959
He can gradually automate this application by giving "examples" to the system of how he manually manipulates the information. ... The Query-by-Example database language is a subset of the SBA programming language.

CACM-1563
A Method for Finding Hamilton Paths and Knight's Tours The use of Warnsdorff's rule for finding a knight's tour is generalized and applied to the problem of finding a Hamilton path in a graph. ... A graph-theoretic justification for the method is given.

CACM-1641
The complete scheme has been implemented in connection with a LISP embedding into ALGOL, using an IBM 7044 with 32k of core memory and disks. ... A Use of Fast and Slow Memories in List-Processing Languages A scheme is described which permitting a substantial increase in memory space utilized to store list-structured data.

CACM-3166
" Each of the four algorithms is analyzed for the conditions under which it will be accurate. ... Our discussion is expository, with emphasis on reaching a suitable definition of "accuracy.

CACM-2667
Execution Characteristics of Programs in a Page-on-Demand System Data are presented which show the execution characteristics of two types of commonly used programs in a large-scale, time-shared computer system. ... A software monitoring facility built into the supervisor was used for data collection during normal system operation.

CACM-1771
A classification of the subject areas contained in computer science is presented and twenty-two courses in these areas are described. ... Prerequisites, catalog descriptions, detailed outlines, and annotated bibliographies for these courses are included.

CACM-2136
A Note on "A Modification of Nordsieck's Method Using an 'Off-Step' Point".

CACM-2420
Experiments with an Automatic Theorem-Prover HavingPartial Ordering Inference Rules Automatic theorem-provers need to be made much more efficient. ... With this in mind, Slagle has shown how the axioms for partial ordering can be replaced by built-in inference rules when using a particular theorem-proving algorithm based upon hyper-resolution and paramodulation.

CACM-1610
A Method for the Solution of Transportation Problems with Tall Matrices A method is presented for the solution of the transportation problem having a cost matrix with few columns. ... The computer implementation of this method shows it to be very fast and efficient.

CACM-2208
If this particular area is full, then the entry will be placed into the slower second-level store, even though other areas in the first-level store may have space available. ... When an entry is to be filed in the hierarchy, a hashing algorithm will attempt to place the entry into one of these areas.

CACM-2046
A model based on n-ary relations, a normal form for data base relations, and the concept of a universal form for data base relations, and the concept of a universal data sublanguage are introduced. ... In Section 1, inadequacies of these models are discussed.

CACM-2168
<B>List</B> Tracing in Systems Allowing Multiple Cell-Types List-processing systems have each allowed the use of only a single size and configuration of <B>list</B> cell. ... In this paper a system is described which allows the use of arbitrarily many different sizes and configurations of <B>list</B> cells, possibly not specified until run time.

CACM-1214
Some Experiments in Algebraic Manipulation by Computer  A set of subroutines to allow algebraic manipulations on the IBM 7094 computer has been written a <B>List</B> Processor, SLIP. ... A series of four problems of increasing difficulty were solved using these routines.

CACM-1998
It is shown that the complex inversion can be up to twice as fast as the real inversion. ... Using extended inner product accumulation the bound is half of the real system.

CACM-1935
Randomized Binary Search Technique A mathematical model is developed for the mean and variance of the number of trials to recover a given document in a randomly received <B>list</B> of files. ... The search method described is binary in nature and offers new potential for information retrieval systems.

CACM-1519
GEORGE 3-A General Purpose Time Sharing and Operating System An Operating System is described which will run on a wide variety of configurations of the I. ... The system includes a Multilevel device-independent File Store.

CACM-2953
Notes on Recursion Elimination Various methods of recursion elimination are applied to the schematic recursive procedure: proc S(x); px then N(x); S(fx); S(gx); M(x) fi. ... Each method of recursion removal involves the use of one or more stacks, and the solutions are compared on the basis of their running time.

CACM-2538
Detailed description of four courses are given; suggestions are made for more advanced work; and an extensive library <B>list</B> is included. ... This report, authorized by both the subcommittee and (CCCS), supplies a set of recommendations for courses and necessary resources.

CACM-1464
Assembly and "go" features of IBSYS permit immediate execution with optional listings, decks and debugging information. ... Although assembly plus loading time exceeds compilation time, the total time is satisfactory and the user gets ease and facility which are fully compensating.

CACM-0253
On a Program for Ray-Chaudhuri's Algorithm for a Minimum Cover of an Abstract Complex.

CACM-0440
The underlying problem is that of making nearly maximum use of items of identifying information that are individually unreliable but that may collectively be of considerable discriminating power. ... Record Linkage Special difficulties are encountered in devising reliable systems for searching and updating any large files of documents that must be identified primarily on the basis of names and other personal particulars.

CACM-2977
However, the results do not invalidate the concept of a stage model. ... Research on the data processing budgets of California counties fails to support the s-shaped curve or the use of budgets as a basis for a stage model.

CACM-2388
The use of this algorithm is discussed, and it is compared with another which restructures the tree after each new item is added. ... The binary trees grown by this algorithm sometimes have some branches longer than others; therefore, it is possible to reduce the average retrieval time by restructuring the tree to make the branches as uniform in length as possible.

CACM-1720
Master's Level Computer Science Curricula The results of a survey of the course work done by master's degree candidates at 25 US universities are presented, and some general comments concerning the emphasis of these programs are given.

CACM-0123
All three versions of NELIAC accepted essentially identical input language. ... Navy Electronics Laboratory, San Diego,California, as a"boot-strap" compiler for the Remington Rand Univac COUNTESS computer.

CACM-2185
A Note on Compiling Fixed Point Binary Multiplications An algorithm is developed for compiling, as a sequence of shifts, additions,and subtractions, many fixed point binary multiplications involving a constant. ... The most significant characteristics of the algorithm are the simplicity of the test which determines if the algorithm should be applied and the degree to which it "suggests" efficient object code.

CACM-1723
An algorithm is given for constructing project networks directly from the project precedence relations. ... The number of nodes created is minimal for the given precedence relations.

CACM-1924
one submatrix or partition per page) in most cases induced fewer page faults than a row-by-row representation. ... e.

CACM-1708
A Note on the Efficiency of a LISP Computation in a Paged Machine The problem of the use of two levels of storage for programs is explored in the context of a LISP system which uses core memory as a buffer for a large virtual memory stored on a drum. ... Details of timing are given for one particular problem.

CACM-2081
Several completeness results are obtained in the sense that for each expression an equivalent expression in normal form can be found within a specified calculus. ... Algorithms are given which use symbol manipulation of matrix expressions so as to find the forms best suited for computation.

CACM-3028
The Manchester Mark I and Atlas: A His torical Perspective In 30 years of computer design at Manchester University two systems stand out: the Mark I (developed over the period 1946-49) and the Atlas (1955-62). ... This paper places each computer in its his torical context and then describes the architecture and system software in present-day terminology.

CACM-2896
The fine degree of in terleaving in this program makes it especially difficult to understand, and complicates the proof greatly. ... Difficulties with proving such parallel programs correct are discussed.

CACM-2233
For the benefit of the uninitiated, the encoding method used in the second cypher employs a specified document whose words are simply numbered consecutively, and first letters of these words are sought out at random to match the letters of these words are sought out at random to match the letters of the clear text or message. ... Generations of cryptanalysts have expended untold man-years, thus far without success, attempting tode code them; vast armies of fortune hunters and treasure seekers have devoted Herculean labors to digging up the rolling hills of Virginia trying to locate the promised bonanza.

CACM-0941
A Recursive Program for the General n-Dimensional Integral A general program is outlined for n-dimensional integration with variable limits. ... It was developed in the Ferranti Mercury Autocode Scheme.

CACM-0755
An Exponential Method of Numerical Integration of Ordinary Differential Equations A formula for numerical integration is prepared, which involves an exponential term. ... Thus this formula may be used with a large step size to decrease the total computing time for a solution significantly, particularly in those engineering problems where high accuracy is not needed.

CACM-2929
The optimization consists of replacing a procedure invocation by a modified copy of the procedure body. ... Other conclusions based on these results are also presented.

CACM-1788
In this paper, it is contended that a programming language is best described functionally as a body of macro instructions, and that the macro call constitutes a canonical form in terms of which a programming notation may be described. ... Also discussed are the conflict between machine independence and object program efficiency, and the question of where the greatest difficulties lie in compiler construction.

CACM-2096
Experiments with the M & N Tree-Searching Program The M & N procedure is an improvement to the mini-max backing-up procedure widely used in computer program for game-playing and other purposes. ... Since information on statistical significance has often been lacking in papers on computer experiments in the artificial intelligence field, these experiments can perhaps serve as a model for future work.

CACM-2851
The latter model includes the capability for the representation of an infinite set of control states by allowing there to be arbitrarily many instruction pointers (or processes) executing the program. ... Formal Verification of Parallel Programs Two formal models for parallel computation are presented: an abstract conceptual model and a parallel-program model.

CACM-0111
Numerical examples are shown to illustrate the pitfalls and to show how these are circumvented by application of the recommended procedures. ... Both a high degree of accuracy and rapid convergence are realized.

CACM-2496
When a collection of varying-length records is to be accessed from specified drum positions, it is known that the SLTF discipline does not necessarily minimize the drum latency time. ... However, we show that the total time to access the entire collection for any SLTF schedule is never as much as a drum revolution longer than a minimum latency schedule.

CACM-3111
It suggests that further research on this topic will be highly rewarding, both in a theoretical and a practical sense. ... This paper shows that it is possible to select a key over open communications channels in such a fashion that communications security can be maintained.

CACM-1665
However convenient these advantages may be, speed is the most important consideration. ... Each output item is identified by a code number together with a pointer to a block of storage containing the characters and character count in the item.

CACM-3005
As a consequence, instruction decoding time is minimized, and the machine is efficient with respect to both space and time. ... Unlike a Huffman code, which utilizes variable length fields, this method uses only fixed length (1-byte) op code and address fields.

CACM-1725
) In this paper a very simple proof of this theorem derived from some elementary aspects of the structure of sets of binary numbers is presented. ... e.

CACM-2903
Improving Programs by the Introduction of Recursion A new technique of program transformation, called "recursion in troduction," is described and applied to two algorithms which solve pattern matching problems. ... These algorithms are then subjected to a second transformation, a method of recursion elimination called "tabulation," to produce programs with a very efficient running time.

CACM-2061
The notion of reduction class for a context-free grammar is then introduced and its connection with the structure of a bounded-context parser is indicated. ... In the second part, the utility of the algorithm is discuss ed in the light of the experience gained from its use in compiler design.

CACM-3204
Some requirements for such a program are: it must be easy to access, and that the result must be obtained in a reasonably short time. ... The Q-32 computer as System Development Corporation, Santa Monica, California, was chosen because it also had a LISP 1.

CACM-2770
The Quadratic Hash Method When the Table Size Is Not a Prime Number Previous work on quadratic hash methods is limited mainly to the case where the table size is a prime number. ... It is shown that all composite numbers containing at least the square of one of the component primes have full-period integer-coefficient quadratic hash functions.

CACM-1113
Computer-Made Perspective Movies as a Scientific and Communication Tool* It is easy to program the basic transformation required for a perspective drawing. ... This fact plus the advent of high speed microfilm printers such as the General Dynamics Electronics S-C 4020 makes possible perspective movies as the direct output from a computer.

CACM-2344
On the Optimization of Performance of Time-Sharing Systems by Simulation A simulation model of a time-sharing system with a finite noncontiguous store and an infinite auxiliary store is used to study the variation of system parameters such as store size, number of jobs allowed to execute simultaneously, job-scheduling algorithm, etc. ... It is shown that significant improvements in the measure of system performance can be obtained by using variable time-slice techniques and by selecting the optimum round-robin cycle time.

CACM-2832
This note presents an algorithm which improves on previous context tree retrieval algorithms. ... Algorithms for addition and deletion of data and for garbage collection are outlined.

CACM-2680
These decisions will affect the number of mount requests issued to the operators. ... Optimal Space Allocation on Disk Storage Devices When the amount of space required for file storage exceeds the amount which can be kept on-line, decisions must be made as to which files are to be permanently resident and which mountable.

CACM-1938
It is each terminal user's ability to utilize the full resources of the system that makes quantitative evaluation of time-sharing systems particularly difficult. ... Six criteria are described which have been successfully used to perform first-level quantitative time-sharing system performance evaluation.

CACM-2176
First some standard terminology is introduced. ... An analysis of a completely different distribution is given which yields similar results.

CACM-1395
The algorithm is applicable to other members of the family of string transformation languages of which AMBIT is a member, and it provides a rationale for the design of the AMBIT language. ... The algorithm for the "AMBIT scan" and an example of its application are given.

CACM-2682
The general method is applied to the case of two variables, cpu seconds and number of I/O activities; and synthetic workload with 88 jobs is constructed to represent a month's workload consisting of about 6000 jobs. ... The drive workload is realized by using a synthetic program in which the characteristics can be varied by varying the appropriate parameters.

CACM-1630
Moreover, the skeleton representation seems to have advantages when it is necessary to determine repeatedly whether points are inside or outside the region, or to perform set-theoretic operations on regions. ... Computer Representation of Planar Regions by Their Skeletons Any region can be regarded as a union of maximal neighborhoods of its points, and can be specified by the centers and radii of these neighborhoods; this set is a sort of"skeleton" of the region.

CACM-2888
Information Reference Coding Items in business systems have to be identified by reference codes, which can later be used as data codes and file keys in an associated data processing system. ... In business systems associated with large collections of integrated files (database) it is vital to assign codes in a methodical way so as to control future extension and changes while maintaining correct program action.

CACM-0071
This facility is to be capable of preparing programs for any of a variety of machines having characteristics similar to those of the facility's computer. ... Proposal for a Feasible Programming System This paper proposes designing a programming facility (itself involving a digital computer and a program) which will assist the preparation of large-scale real-time programs.

CACM-1535
This diagram determines in advance the required register configuration at certain steps of the program, so that the program is subdivided into separate portions to which the allocation procedure may be applied independently. ... This technique is based on the construction of a link diagram, which shows at any step the future occurrences of indexes which must be loaded into index registers.

CACM-1166
Modification at execution time of the address or tag of an incompatible instruction requires incorporation of an address-tag equivalent. ... Several levels of macro calls are required to supply arguments to the basic skeleton for each particular instruction.

CACM-1008
Scheduling Meetings with a Computer Computer scheduling of papers as it was developed for the 1960 meeting of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB) is described. ... The FASEB meeting is the largest scientific meeting held in the United States each year.

CACM-3164
Two PAD algorithms are presented; one uses a simple path matrix representation and the other uses a <B>list</B> with an "artificial gradient. ... When a request creates a cycle, nodes are, "detached" until the new are can be entered acyclically This process is important in certain areas of database implementation in which there are constraints on the permissible sequences of actions.

CACM-1170
The system was tested on 400 elementary basic English sentences including 300 used earlier by Knowlton in a different learning parser of all 400 sentences. ... After experience with 300 sentences it was able to generalize with 77 percent accuracy to the next 100.

CACM-2401
The principal features of this method are the very small window employed (two-by-two elements), the parallel nature of the process, and the possibility of shrinking any pattern, regardless of the complexity of its configuration. ... An analogy with a neural network description, in terms of McCulloch-Pitts "neurons" is presented.

CACM-3044
A Note on Conditional Expressions Evaluation of a conditional expression may succeed even when the "deciding predicate" diverges and the alternatives are records (or nodes) whose fields have different content.

CACM-2324
These contributions are likely to be the documentation of standard test problems, construction of user oriented software, and comparisons of currently known algorithms to demonstrate which techniques are best for specific problems. ... Management Science: A View from Nonlinear Programming A brief history of integer and continuous nonlinear programming is presented as well as the current obstacles to practical use of these mathematical programming techniques.

CACM-2737
It consists of first determining the minimal-perimeter convex polygon that encloses the given curve and then selecting the rectangle of minimum area capable of containing this polygon. ... Determining the Minimum-Area Encasing Rectangle for an Arbitrary Closed Curve This paper describes a method for finding the rectangle of minimum area in which a given arbitrary plane curve can be contained.

CACM-2799
When updating the mean and square of the standard deviation, the process requires no square roots. ... Methods for dealing with weighted data and data removal are presented.

CACM-1071
Computer-Usage Accounting for Generalized Time-Sharing Systems The current development of general time-sharing systems requires a revision of accounting procedures for computer usage. ... The various cost factors which should be considered for computer usage accounting in generalized time-sharing systems are discussed.

CACM-2957
Relational databases defined as collections of aggregates are structured as a hierarchy on n-ary relations. ... A top-down methodology for database design is described which separates decisions concerning aggregate structure from decisions concerning key identification.

CACM-1988
A Formalism for Translator Interactions A formalism is presented for describing the actions of processors for programming languages-compilers, interpreters, assemblers-and their interactions in complex systems such as compiler-compilers or extendible languages. ... The formalism here might be used to define and answer such a question as "Can one do bootstrapping using a meta-compiler whose metaphase is interpretive?" In addition an algorithm is presented for deciding whether or not a given system can be produced from a given set of component processors.

CACM-2817
This paper defines the concepts of transaction, consistency and schedule and shows that consistency requires that a transaction cannot request new locks after releasing a lock. ... These subsets may be specified by predicates.

CACM-0861
Read-Backward Polyphase Sorting Read-backward Polyphase sorting provides more efficient use of the tapes available to a sort than most other sorting techniques. ... Backward Polyphase produces a continuous merging process from n-1 tapes where n is the total number of tapes being used in the sorting process.

CACM-3115
, nonsingular over the field {0, 1}, and an initial segment of the natural numbers are placed in one-to-one correspondence. ... e.

CACM-2249
All methods use as a basis a standard Gaussian random number generator. ... A comparison is made to determine which method requires the least computer execution time and memory space when utilizing the IBM 360/67.

CACM-3001
,Xn each have finite range with the variable Xi taking on Pi possible values and that the values of the variables are changing with time. ... Two efficient solutions for this problem are described.

CACM-2901
Hence any symbol may occur in any string. ... The strings may be variable length, without a maximum length restriction, and no symbols need be reserved for control purposes.

CACM-1484
The inadequacies of the standard programming languages for the description of systems are discussed, and a dialect of ALGOL which is suitable for describing synchronous systems is introduced. ... These descriptions can be used for simulation and automatic design of the system described, in addition to communicating system specifications.

CACM-1752
A synopsis is given of the task scheduling and paging algorithms that were implemented, and the results of comparative simulation are given by tracing the development of the algorithms through six predecessor versions. ... Simulation results relative to alternate hardware characteristics and the effects of program mix and loading variations are also presented.

CACM-1403
A Method for Finding the m Smallest Values of a Monotonic Function Defined on Ordered Sets of Positive Integers The minimum value of a monotonic increasing function defined on a partially ordered set S is assumed on the set of minimal points of S. ... This observation is used to devise an efficient method for finding the m smallest functional values of monotonic functions defined on ordered pairs of positive integers.

CACM-3124
Recursive Data Structures in APL A mathematical study of three approaches for defining nested arrays in APL is presented. ... One of the approaches is used to define an APL array to be a recursive data structure equivalent to a tree structure in which all data is stored at the leaves as homogeneous arrays of numbers and characters.

CACM-1677
On the basis of experience at rice, some ideas on such extensions are presented. ... This storage arrangement is discussed with its realized advantages or programming systems: simplicity of programmed addressing, flexibility of data structures, efficiency of memory utilization, variability of system composition during execution, means of linkage between programs and from programs to data, and basis for storage protection.

CACM-1602
The method of solution is automatically provided in conjunction with the translation from equation form to computer instruction. ... Essentially all clerical operations now required for FORTRAN programming have been automated so that the POSE programmer need not be concerned with these details.

CACM-1475
In such situations, it may prove economical to avoid creating a new master file during each updating run by producing instead a dribble ledger containing only those master file accounts which have experienced activity. ... Dribble Posting a Master File Many business applications employ sequential magnetic tape rather than random-access storage techniques to process a very small number of transactions against a voluminous master file.

CACM-2559
The efficiency of the technique is discussed and theoretical statistics are given. ... A technique for accomplishing this rescattering is presented.

CACM-2993
Small perturbations in the input data resulted in problems which did not cycle. ... Occurrences of Cycling and Other Phenomena Arising in a Class of Linear Programming Models An investigation into the average queue size for a certain class of queues has resulted in the formulation of linear programming problems which are ill-conditioned in some cases.

CACM-3092
Rough estimates of the total systems and programming resources consumed range as high as 75-80 percent in each category. ... It was then submitted to 120 organizations.

CACM-2827
The emphasis of this algorithm is on calculating the intersections of quadric surfaces. ... Each value of the parameter represents at most two points, and these may easily be distinguished.

CACM-1012
The Kuno-Oettinger multiple-path syntactic analyzer for English is a concrete example of a directed production analyzer and of a working parsing algorithm. ... A directed production analyzer (I,T,X,p) is a nondeterministic pushdown-store machine with internal vocabulary I, input vocabulary T, and all productions of p in the form: (Z,a) -> aY1.

CACM-1165
It allows an RCA 301 object program to be run on the Spectra 70/45 without necessitating changes in the RCA 301 object code. ... The Spectra 70/45 Emulator for the RCA 301 The RCA 301 Emulator System is supplied with the Spectra 70/45 as a reprogramming aid.

CACM-1929
One of the most commonly employed devices for obtaining permanent graphical output from digital computers is the microfilm plotter. ... Images from Computers and Microfilm Plotters Digital computers are widely used for the processing of information and data of all kinds, including the pictorial information contained in photographs and other graphical representations.

CACM-2593
An experimental implementation, called the experimental Data Management System, XDMS, is described and certain conclusions about the back-end approach are drawn from this implementation. ... A Back-end Computer for Data Base Management It is proposed that the data base management function be placed on a dedicated back-end computer which accepts commands (in a relatively high level language such as the CODASYL Data Base Task Group, April 1971 Report) from a host computer, accesses the data base on secondary storage, and returns results.

CACM-2618
A New Solution of Dijkstra's Concurrent Programming Problem A simple solution to the mutual exclusion problem is presented which allows the system to continue to operate despite the failure of any individual component.

CACM-0100
Recursive Subscripting Compilers and List-Types Memories.

CACM-1697
Text inputting is accomplished via a display scope or a Rand Tablet. ... In principle, the system can deal with any orthography, although at present it is limited to 4000 Chinese characters and some mathematical symbols.

CACM-2876
This paper is concerned with another, independent, dimension of privacy protection, the control over what a user is allowed to do with a piece of information supplied to him by the database. ... The ability to condition the supply of information on its intended use is called here "intentional resolution" of privacy protection.

CACM-1915
The computing time increases roughly as the square of the number of edges. ... All the edges of the objects are considered sequentially, and all planes which hide every point of an edge are found.

CACM-1742
To work efficiently, such a channel must have a sufficient number of instructions that it is best understood as a small processor rather than a powerful channel. ... As it was found that successive improvements to the display processor design lie on a circular path, by making improvements one can return to the original simple design plus one new general purpose computer for each trip around.

CACM-1259
There are then three equivalent expressions, easily translatable to one another, each having different characteristics. ... Applications of Binary Numbers In Computer Routines A binary number can be thought of as an alternate form of expression for either a set of letters or a decimal number.

CACM-1885
The major innovations include a full,formal description of the syntax of a transformational grammar, a directed random phrase structure generator, a lexical insertion algorithm, an extended definition of analysis, and a simple problem-oriented programming language in which the algorithm for application of transformations can be expressed. ... The system deals with the transformational model of syntax, along the lines of Chomsky's Aspects of the Theory of Syntax.

CACM-1391
Computer Experiments in Finite Algebra A medium-scale programming system is written in MAD and FAP on the IBM 7094 to manipulate some of the objects of modern algebra: finite groups, maps and sets of maps, subsets and sets of subsets, constant integers and truth-values. ... Designed to operate in a time-sharing environment, the system can serve as a teacher's aid to the undergraduate student of modern algebra, as well as for the working scientist or engineer wishing to familiarize himself with the subset.

CACM-2705
programs) of general utility and studies of questions related to program style. ... Programming Languages, Natural Languages, and Mathematics Some social aspects of programming are illuminated through analogies with similar aspects of mathematics and natural languages.

CACM-2308
Computers and Urban Society This brief survey of the use of computers in urban society covers the broad range of activities found in any city. ... It is expected that the benefits of such computer usage will outweigh the costs and that we may look forward to an expansion of such usage.

CACM-2231
The Reconstruction of Binary Patterns from Their Projections Given the horizontal and vertical projections of a finite binary pattern f, can we construct the original pattern f? In this paper we give a characterization of patterns that are reconstructable from their projection. ... Three algorithms are developed to reconstruct both unambiguous and ambiguous patterns.

CACM-2169
Considerable effort has been spent to ensure a minimum amount of machine dependence in the implementation, thus permitting the system to be installed quickly and easily on a variety of computing machines. ... It has been designed and implemented to handle large problems with ease and efficiency.

CACM-2702
These results carry over to many other parameterized classes of grammars, such as the LL(k), strong LL(k), SLR(k), LC(k), and strong LC(k) grammars. ... The time complexity of this problem is analyzed both when k is considered to be a fixed integer and when k is considered to be a parameter of the test.

CACM-2856
The new approach described in this paper uses dynamic programming to synthesize an optimal decision tree from which a program can be created. ... Using this approach, the efficiency of creating an optimal program is increased substantially, permitting generation of optimal programs for decision tables with as many as ten to twelve conditions.

CACM-3096
An Optimal Method for Deletion in One-Sided Height-Balanced Trees A one-sided height-balanced tree is a binary tree in which every node's right subtree has a height which is equal to or exactly one greater than the height of its left subtree. ... Moreover the method is optimal in the sense that its complexity cannot be reduced in order of magnitude.

CACM-1485
Many examples, frequently from <B>list</B> processing languages, illustrate the forms described. ... The Structure of Programming Languages In this paper the major components of every programming language are identified as: (1) the elementary program statement, (2) mechanisms for linking elementary statements together, (3) the means by which a program can obtain data inputs.

CACM-2396
MUSE, from a Model to Understand Simple English, processes English sentences of unrestricted content but somewhat restricted format. ... MUSE: A Model To Understand Simple English MUSE is a computer model for natural language processing, based on a semantic memory network like that of Quillian's TLC.

CACM-2345
Detailed course descriptions are presented, program organization discussed, and implementation questions considered. ... Material necessary for such programs is identified, and courses incorporating it are specified.

CACM-2973
The best previous algorithm takes time O(n log n). ... The algorithms of this paper are shown to be optimal in time within small constant factors.

CACM-2885
On Self-Organizing Sequential Search Heuristics This paper examines a class of heuristics for maintaining a sequential <B>list</B> in approximately optimal order with respect to the average time required to search for a specified element, assuming that each element is searched for with a fixed probability independent of previous searches performed. ... Empirical evidence suggests that transposition is in fact optimal for any distribution of search probabilities.

CACM-1647
The compiler also provides extensive error diagnostics, during both the compilation and the execution phases of a program run. ... FORTRAN IV was selected as the source language in order to achieve maximum language compatibility with other available compiling systems, in particular the IBM 7040/44 FORTRAN IV system.

CACM-1707
Generation of Positive Test Matrices with Known Positive Spectra Sufficient conditions are given for a real matrix to be similar to a positive matrix. ... This result is used to construct a similarity transformation which, when applied to a particular upper triangular matrix, yields a positive matrix with a preassigned positive spectrum.

CACM-2449
A Simple Technique for Structured Variable Lookup A simple technique for the symbol-table lookup of structured variables based on simple automata theory is presented. ... The technique offers a deterministic solution to a problem which is currently handled in a nondeterministic manner in PL/I and COBOL compilers.

CACM-2113
The description makes frequent use of examples taken from the fully operational implementation of the parser in an experimental English sentence analyzer. ... The matches are traced by means of binary masks and the state of single bits determines the operational flow of the procedure.

CACM-0890
Selected Definitions  A selection of the definitions prepared by the ACM Standards Committee's Subcommittee on Programming Terminology is presented for review by the ACM membership.

CACM-2944
Shifting Garbage Collection Overhead to Compile Time This paper discusses techniques which enable automatic storage reclamation overhead to be partially shifted to compile time. ... It is shown that at compile time certain program actions that affect the reference counts of cells can be deduced.

CACM-1333
A simpler and slightly more flexible algorithm is presented which deals also with the case of negative addends. ... Reducing Truncation Errors Using Cascading Accumulators When accumulating a large number of quantities as in numerical integration, the sum itself may become much larger than the individual addends.

CACM-3102
) are discussed. ... Various proposals for syntax are considered.

CACM-2857
For instance, a circular link between the ends of a <B>list</B> is redundant if the <B>list</B> is always referenced by that edge, and <B>list</B> traversal is easier when that link is null. ... Referencing Lists by an Edge An edge reference into a <B>list</B> structure is a pair of pointers to adjacent nodes.

CACM-1524
In this paper an algorithm is presented which allows one to terminate the iteration process on the basis of calculated bounds for the roundoff error which occurs in evaluating the polynomial. ... A Stopping Criterion for Polynomial Root Finding When searching for the root of a polynomial, it is generally difficult to know just when to accept a number as an adequate approximation to the root.

CACM-2990
The concept of query term accuracy is in troduced as the probability of occurrence of a query term in the documents relevant to that query. ... Much of the published evaluation work is based on measuring the retrieval performance of an average user query.

CACM-1497
If, however, the normalization is to be eliminated one has to choose proper higher precision segments of operands for the basic division. ... It is shown that such a scheme is economical only for small radices.

CACM-3149
The property is shown to be useful for analyzing pictures of such bodies, particularly when the line data extracted from the pictures are imperfect. ... The Cyclic Order Property of Vertices as an Aid in Scene Analysis A cyclic-order property is defined for bodies bounded by smooth-curved faces.

CACM-2607
A Problem-List of Issues Concerning Computers and Public Policy.

CACM-1534
DAD, The C. ... Operating System The design and implementation of the C.

CACM-2594
Structured Data Structures Programming systems which permit arbitrary linked <B>list</B> structures enable the user to create complicated structures without sufficient protection. ... Deletions can result in unreachable data elements, and there is no guarantee that additions will be performed properly.

CACM-1845
Loader Standardization for Overlay Programs The overlay capability is described for four of the third generation computer systems: CDC-6000, GE-635, IBM-360, and UNIVAC-1108. ... A proposal that overlay software incorporates a memory occupation specification concept instead of the conditional tree structure is delineated.

CACM-2846
In the analysis part of the paper it will be shown that for a collection of n keys the retrieval time, measured in terms of bit inspections of one key, is of the order logm(n) and the storage requirement of the order n*(m+log2 n) bits. ... It has the same underlying m-ary tree structure as a trie, where m is a parameter of the trie, but whereas the fields of the nodes in a trie have to be large enough to hold a key or at least a pointer, the fields in a C-trie are only one bit long.

CACM-2741
It is based on a technique of variable aggregation and the concept of nearly decomposable system, both borrowed from Econometrics. ... Decomposability, Instabilities, and Saturation in Multiprogramming Systems A step-by-step approach to model the dynamic behavior and evaluate the performance of computing systems is proposed.

CACM-1467
To provide a variety of display scope communication procedures, a Graphic Service system which functions as a generalized graphical language translator, is being developed to aid the definition as well as the use of new graphical languages. ... A Graphical ServiceSystem With Variable Syntax Man-machine interaction in many fields of endeavor should be greatly facilitated in the near future through the use of interactive graphical languages.

CACM-1172
S. ... The first algorithm minimizes the computer storage space required for the resultant program, the second minimizes computer running time.

CACM-2367
In the remaining portions the possible formats for such a course are discussed, a topic by topic outline is given, and a selected set of references is listed. ... Computers and Society: A Proposed Course for Computer Scientists The purpose of this paper is to describe a course concerned with both the effects of computers on society and the responsibilities of computer scientists to society.

CACM-2402
e. ... A simple example demonstrates that this information can be the basis of a technique for structure determination that can make effective use of an interactive graphics system.

CACM-1164
This general treatment is followed by three sections that describe in greater detail the implementation of compatibility features using the emulation techniques for the IBM 7074, 7080 and 7090 systems on IBM System/360. ... The technique of emulation is developed and includes sections on both the Central Processing Unit (CPU) and the Input/Output unit (I/O).

CACM-3081
Shallow Binding in Lisp 1. ... 5 is presented in which context-switching is an environment tree transformation called rerooting.

CACM-2820
Over 500 students have used CAPS to learn Fortran, PL/I, or Cobolin conjunction with a computer assisted course on introductory computer science. ... The most remarkable feature of CAPS is its ability to automatically diagnose errors both at compile time and at run time.

CACM-3132
Three algorithms which are defined in the paper are found to be quite good. ... Six algorithms for finding central hyperplanes are tested on three data sets.

CACM-1783
For all combinations of rounding and truncation conversions the question is considered of how many significant digits are needed in the intermediate base to allow such in-and-out conversions to return the original number (when possible), or at least significant digit. ... In-and-Out Conversions Byan in-and-out conversion we mean that a floating-point number in one base is converted into a floating-point number in another base and then converted back to a floating-point number in the original base.

CACM-1144
Digital Computer Determination of Alpha Source Activity A technique is described for determining the activity and homogeneity of an alpha source. ... The technique involves computer manipulation of the digital image of the nuclear source.

CACM-1676
Machine-independent optimization occurs in pass II and DO-loop and machine-dependent optimization in pass III. ... To maintain cohesion, a system must be developed, written in a high level language, which minimizes machine dependencies and isolates those which are necessary.

CACM-2771
Solids may also be added together or subtracted. ... Any solid can be moved, scaled, or rotated.

CACM-1435
Design of Computer Simulation Experiments for Industrial Systems The aim of this paper is to provide background information on the existing literature on experimental design techniques which may be applicable to the design of computer simulation experiments for industrial systems. ... The four experimental design problems are: (1) the problem of stochastic convergence, (2) the problem of factor selection, (3) the problem of motive and (4) the many response problem.

CACM-2584
It is recommended that educational administrators consider whether the many courses aimed at training programmers are justified on a vocational basis. ... The 1973 figure of 180,000 is considerably less than suggested in earlier reports.

CACM-2485
Managing the Computer Resource: A Stage Hypothesis Based on the study of expenditures for data processing, a descriptive stage hypothesis is presented. ... It is suggested that the planning, organizing, and controlling activities associated with managing the computer resource will change in character over a period of time, and will evolve in patterns roughly correlated to four stages of the computer budget: Stage I (computer acquisition), Stage II (intense system development), Stage III (proliferation of controls), and Stage IV (user/service orientation).

CACM-2847
Sampling from the Gamma Distribution on a Computer This paper describes a method of generating gamma variates that appears to be less costly than Wallace's recently suggested method. ... For large shape parameter (a); the cost of computation is proportional to (a), whereas Wallace's method is proportional to (a).

CACM-1393
PM is based on the REFCO III <B>list</B> processing system, which is described and compared with the LISP and SLIP systems. ... Some of the formal operations which can be performed by the system are sums, differences, products, quotients, derivatives, substitutions and greater common divisors.

CACM-2192
It is shown to be useful for proving partial functions equivalent and thus applicable in proofs about interpreters for programming languages. ... Another Recursion Induction Principle An inductive method for proving things about recursively defined functions is described.

CACM-1810
Is Automatic "Folding" of Programs Efficient Enough To Displace Manual? The operation of "folding" a program into the available memory is discussed. ... and by Nelson on an automatic folding mechanism of simple design, a demand paging unit built at the IBM Research Center by Belady, Nelson, O'Neil, and others, permitting its quality to be compared with that of manual folding, are discussed, and it is shown that given some care in use the unit performs satisfactorily under the conditions tested, even though it is operating across a memory-to-storage interface with a very large speed difference.

CACM-1923
It is shown that this technique can provide potentially inexpensive methods for programs to communicate with deeply embedded facilities such as command language processors. ... Pseudofiles An approach to system interfaces for high level languages using basic input/output support facilities is described.

CACM-2756
A Problem-List of Public Policy Issues Concerning Computers and Health Care.

CACM-0144
Using numeric representations of entire words or common phrases (rather than character-by-character representations) requires approximately one-third of present transmission time. ... This saving is reflected in overall costs.

CACM-1351
Automatic Error Bounds on Real Zeros of Rational Functions A procedure for implementing an interval arithmetic version of the Newton-Raphson method is proposed. ... The procedure require only a starting interval over which the zeros of a given rational function are to be located.

CACM-1909
The error in this approximation was studied empirically. ... Computation of Jn(x) by Numerical Integration It is shown to be practical to compute Jn(x) by numerical integration of its integral representation using the trapezoidal rule.

CACM-2570
A Comparison of <B>List</B> Schedules for Parallel Processing Systems The problem of scheduling two or more processors to minimize the execution time of a program which consists of a set of partially ordered tasks is studied. ... A dynamic programming solution for the case in which execution times are random variables is presented.

CACM-1592
String Similarity and Misspellings The problem of programming a computer to determine whether or not a string of characters is a misspelling of a given word was considered. ... A numberof algorithms were evaluated-some proposed by other writers, some by the author.

CACM-2679
Some Performance Tests of "quicksort" and Descendants Detailed performance evaluations are presented for six ACM algorithms: quicksort (No. ... 64), Shellsort (No.

CACM-3034
The algorithm described in the paper is implemented in Fortran IV. ... All the conditions in the decision tables are assumed to be inequalities or equalities relating linear expressions.

CACM-2684
A more detailed presentation, as well as the application to define abstract syntax and translations between languages, is given in a previous paper by the author. ... Yet numerous interesting and difficult issues in syntax stem from the context-sensitive requirements, notably the compatibility between the declaration of an identifier and its uses, the correspondence between actual and formal parameters, and issues arising from block structure.

CACM-0048
Each time the given code combination arises identifying the particular station (barring for tuitous error combinations of very low probability) it has been called. ... The communication describes the properties and application of the code in some detail and the finding of the particular example to be employed on URAL, the Soviet-built drum computer donated to the Indian Statistical Institute by the United Nations Technical Aid Administration (UNTAA).

CACM-1590
A sequence of operations defined on the speech wave selects a <B>list</B> of points along the waveform as candidates for pitch markers. ... Speech sounds were sampled by a microphone and an analog-to-digital converter attached to an interconnected IBM 7090-PDP-1 system.

CACM-1705
Variants can easily be written because of the explicit call of the procedures decompose integer and decompose real. ... 67), 729] a basic set of input-output procedures is defined aiming at quality and flexibility.

CACM-2137
Also, a new means of <B>list</B> representation is used: "local sequential" for lists created during compilation, and "block level sequential" for those created dynamically. ... This combination of features has eliminated the need for a free list, and effectively minimizes the number of pages used at any moment.

CACM-2527
This report describes the actual implementation of such a machine: it is a computer whose "machine language" is APL. ... The machine automatically allocates memory, executes statements, calls functions, converts numbers from one type to another, checks subscripts, and automatically detects many types of programmer errors.

CACM-2629
The UNIX Time-Sharing system  UNIX is a general-purpose, multi-user, interactive operating system for the Digital Equipment Corporation PDP-11/40 and 11/45 computers. ... It offers a number of features seldom found even in larger operating systems, including: (1) a hierarchical file system incorporating demountable volumes; (2) compatible file, device, and inter-process I/O; (3) the ability to initiate asynchronous processes; (4) system command language selectable on a per-user basis; and (5) over 100 subsystems including a dozen languageshis paper discusses the nature and implementation of the file system and of the user command interface.

CACM-1612
, arithmetic expressions. ... It is shown, for instance, that retracing of unprofitable paths can often be eliminated by a suitable rearrangement of the productions defining the grammar.

CACM-1962
Real-time feedback from the process being controlled is an important link in the system. ... Functions may be created by real-time human inputs to the computer which can interact with already stored functions and computed functions.

CACM-2341
(The third dimension is used for overstriking. ... ) Blocks may be printed, concatenated in any of three dimensions, and merged on the basis of program-defined connection points.

CACM-2606
The new method can finally be seen to pass automatically through singularities where all the other methods which are discussed will have failed. ... The Taylor series method and the new method are shown to be superior in speed and accuracy, while the new method is shown to be most superior when the solution is required near a singularity.

CACM-1653
System Performance Evaluation: Survey and Appraisal The state of the art of system performance evaluation is reviewed and evaluation goals and problems are examined. ... Analysis, simulation, and synthesis are presented as three levels of approach to evaluation, requiring successively greater amounts of information.

CACM-2951
Dynamic Response Time Prediction for Computer Networks If the ultimate aim of a computing network is resource sharing, then the human component as well as the technical component of networking must be fully investigated to achieve this goal. ... This research is a first step toward assisting the user in participating in the vast store of resources available on a network.

CACM-1836
A new algorithm is presented for obtaining the linear precedence functions when given the precedence matrix; this algorithm is shown to possess several computational advantages. ... A New Method for Determining Linear Precedence Functions for Precedence Grammars The precedence relations of a precedence grammar can be precisely described by a two-dimensional precedence matrix.

CACM-1473
In the paper, this region is determined by the electronic digital computer Z22. ... This region can be characterized by means of linear transformation but can not be given in a closed form.

CACM-2882
These data retrieval systems can be organized under several database organizations, including inverted list, threaded list, and cellular <B>list</B> organizations and hybrid combinations of these systems. ... This paper discusses a simulation model of a data retrieval system which has the effect of significantly reducing the cost of experimentation and enabling research never attempted before.

CACM-3152
This also makes possible the derivation of an asymptotically better bound for multiplication of matrices given in row-oriented form by adapting the technique of Strassen to the reorganized data. ... The reorganization/block multiplication scheme is shown to be advantageous for matrices and pages of realistic size; the Strassen adaptation is not.

CACM-3009
Insertions and Deletions In One-Sided Height-Balanced Trees Recently Hirschberg has established that insertions into one-sided height-balanced trees can be done in 0(log^2N) steps. ... It is proved here that deletions can also be performed in 0(log^2N) steps, which answers the open problem posed by Hirschberg.

CACM-2369
This paper describes a polygon comparison scheme in which the relationships of two polygons can be classified into tree types, and also discusses how the relationship is changed for each pair of polygons under rotation about some axis. ... A rotation table is defined for each pair of polygons, which remains fixed as long as rotation is about one axis and provides a means of rapidly determining the visible and hidden line relationship between two polygons.

CACM-1267
Performance of Systems Used for Data Transmission Transfer Rate of Information Bits -An ASA Tutorial Standard Information thruput as a characteristic of systems performance is discussed. ... The paper also presents an orderly arrangement of characteristics and parameters that affect information thruput, and some examples on procedures for determining a thruput rate in terms of TRIB.

CACM-1116
In limited tests the method has successfully produced timetables on every trial. ... References are given which relate the timetable problem to theorems on matrices of zeros and ones, and to theorems on bipartite graphs.

CACM-2204
It is here considered as a sequence of design decisions concerning the decomposition of tasks into subtasks and of data into data structures. ... Program Development by Stepwise Refinement The creative activity of programming-to be distinguished from coding-is usually taught by examples serving to exhibit certain techniques.

CACM-1626
A scheme for binding variables is described which is good in this environment and allows for complete compatibility between compiled and interpreted programs with no special declarations. ... The techniques include careful segmentation of system programs, allocation of virtual memory to allow address arithmetic for type determination, and a special algorithm for building reasonably linearized lists.

CACM-1423
A simple extension has been found to the conventional orthogonalization method for inverting non-singular matrices, which gives the generalized inverse with little extra effort and with no additional storage requirements. ... A Simple Algorithm for Computing the Generalized Inverse of a Matrix The generalized inverse of a matrix is important in analysis because it provides an extension of the concept of an inverse which applies to all matrices.

CACM-2097
Faculty involvement is minimal. ... A term of experience with TEACH is discussed.

CACM-0094
An Iterative Method for Fitting the Logistic Curve An iterative method is given for finding a logistic curve of best least squares fit to a set of two-dimensional points.

CACM-3041
A median split tree (MST) uses the lexical median of a node's descendents as its split value to force the search tree to be perfectly balanced, achieving both a space efficient representation of the tree and high search speed. ... Median Split Trees: A Fast Lookup Technique for Frequently Occuring Keys Split trees are a new technique for searching sets of keys with highly skewed frequency distributions.

CACM-2359
If certain conditions are satisfied, this is superior to the conventional ISAM method of chaining the overflow records via linked <B>list</B> techniques. ... These conditions are: long overflow chains with significant overflow; lack of tight disk space constraints; record keys which are small compared to the total record size; and significant use of the file in the index as opposed to the sequential mode.

CACM-1902
Exercises run under the scheme may be mixed with other programs, and no special recognition of exercises by the operators is necessary. ... An Automatic Grading Scheme for Simple Programming Exercises A discussion is given of alterations that were made to a typical university operating system to record the results of programming exercises in three different languages, including assembly language.

CACM-1939
A purely random generator will produce base trees which will be blocked by the transformations, and which are frequently too long to be of practical interest. ... A solution is offered in the form of a computer program which allows the user to constrain and direct the generation by the simple but powerful device of restricted subtrees.

CACM-1262
The statements are DO TOGETHER and HOLD. ... DO TOGETHERs may be nested.

CACM-2053
Some features of a decision table to Fortran IV translator for the IBM 7044 developed by the authors are given. ... Two algorithms for programming decision tables whose merits are simplicity of implementation and detection of ambiguities at execution time are presented.

CACM-2434
Several omissions in his model are noted, and new assumptions are introduced to overcome these omissions. ... Using this modified model, Dening's results on page residency are rederived and reconsidered for selecting the working set parameter.

CACM-1852
Experience with programming languages whose implementation is based on this algorithm indicates that such a language can be transferred to a new machine in less than one man-week without using the old machine. ... This algorithm can be easily implemented on contemporary computing machines.

CACM-0143
A <B>List</B> of Computer Systems Programs for the IBM 650, DATATRON 205, and UNIVAC SS-80.

CACM-1117
The result is the overlapping of a major portion of the rewind time. ... Polyphase Sorting With Overlapped Rewind* A variation of the polyphase merge technique of sorting is described which permits one tape at a time to be rewound while the merge is continued on the remaining tapes.

CACM-2928
Hardware Estimation of a Process' Primary Memory Requirements A minor hardware extension to the Honeywell 6180 processor is demonstrated to allow the primary memory requirements of a process in Multics to be approximated. ... This primary memory requirement estimate was employed in an experimental version of Multics to control the level of multiprogramming in the system and to bill for memory usage.

CACM-2230
The design criteria, the structure, and the specific features of CADEP are illustrated. ... Although the language has been specifically designed for the automatic generation of integrated circuit masks, it turns out to be well suited also for such other placement problems as architecture design, urban planning, logical and block diagram representation.

CACM-2802
Structured programs are identified as compound function expressions in the algebra of functions. ... The algebraic properties of these function expressions permit the reformulation (expansion as well as reduction) of a nested subexpression independently of its environment, thus modeling what is known as stepwise program refinement as well as program execution.

CACM-2210
The relation between the version of the induction rule used and the form of the program constructed is explored in some detail. ... Toward Automatic Program Synthesis An elementary outline of the theorem-proving approach to automatic program synthesis is given, without dwelling on technical details.

CACM-1388
A computer program is described that reads in a system of such equations and then generates the expansions for all of the dependent variables. ... Thus the exact influence of any parameters on the problem solution can be easily displayed.

CACM-2941
The specific topics addressed are: module structure and its use in defining abstractions, data-structuring facilities in Mesa, an equivalence algorithm for types and type coercions, the benefits of the type system and why it is breached occasionally, and the difficulty of making the treatment of variant records safe. ... Early Experience with Mesa The experiences of Mesa's first users-primarily its implementers-are discussed, and some implications for Mesa and similar programming languages are suggested.

CACM-2034
The approach has been successful on over 15 machines of widely varying characteristics. ... The Mobile Programming System: STAGE2 STAGE2 is the second level of a bootstrap sequence which is easily implemented on any computer.

CACM-1664
In this paper the emphasis is on theoretical considerations and methodology rather than on programming details. ... To derive these equations by this method, the user need know only the coordinate transformation equations relating the curvilinear coordinates of interest to an orthogonal Cartesian triad.

CACM-1710
ASP-A Ring Implemented Associative Structure Package ASP is a general purpose Associative Data Structure Package in which an arbitrary number of data items and an arbitrary number of the relationships between these data items may be represented. ... Emphasis is on the philosophy of the system rather than a particular implementation, though sufficient information is included to enable the reader to produce his own implementation of ASP.

CACM-2251
It allows full table searching, and practically eliminates primary clustering at a very low cost. ... Weighted Increment Linear Search for Scatter Tables A new linear search for hash tables whose increment step is a function of the key being addressed is presented.

CACM-0678
The techniques are applicable to any general-purpose computer. ... Techniques are discussed for increasing the sophistication of the Boolean compiler so as to optimize bit-time computer simulation.

CACM-1770
Rules of Ethics in Information Processing The background and motivation for the adoption by the ACM Council on November 11, 1966, of a set of Guidelines for Professional Conduct in Information Processing are described. ... The purpose is to inform about this important aspect of our profession, as well as to stimulate thought and interest.

CACM-1431
On a Storage Mapping Function For Data Structures Some basic facts about certain data structures are reviewed and an efficient algorithm is presented for constructing a storage mapping function for a structure from the structure's definition.

CACM-1569
Implementing Phrase-Structure Productions in PL/I A method is described for implementing the productions of a context-free phrase structure grammar in a PL/I procedure whose structure and statements parallel the structure and notation of the grammar.

CACM-2780
The formulas for the algorithm are given; the dependency relationships are derived; the computational costs are developed; and some general comments on application and stability are made. ... On Computing Certain Elements of the Inverse of a Sparse Matrix A recursive algorithm for computing the inverse of a matrix from the LU factors based on relationships in Takahashi, et al.

CACM-2497
Having the processor interrupted upon encountering a set lock instead of branching is advantageous if the branch would have resulted in an effective interrupt. ... The read-interlock method does require a special"read-interlock" instruction in the repertoire of the processors and a special "read-interlock" cycle in the repertoire of the memory modules.

CACM-2193
Fine-grained calendar clocks have recently become available; these allow implementation of label variables via a new technique which traps all programming errors of this variety. ... On Implementation of Label Variables Variables of label mode are conventionally implemented with a technique which fails to trap certain programming errors.

CACM-0124
An empirical relation between solution time and the size of the problem is given, based on extensive experiments carried out on a digital computer. ... An Algorithm for the Assignment Problem The assignment problem is formulated and briefly discussed.

CACM-2226
Further Evidence for the Analysis of Algorithms for the Zero-One Programming Problem The purpose of this note is to report computational experience additional to that recently summarized by Gue et al, with two algorithms for the zero-one linear programming problem. ... The utility of one of the algorithms as a suboptimizer is indicated.

CACM-0971
Time Sharing in a Traffic Control Program The Toronto traffic signal control system consists of a variety of logically distinct computer programs, all competing for machine time. ... In this paper the more interesting aspects of the time-sharing program are outlined.

CACM-0278
Some special cases are discussed. ... Storage allocation is considered as a process of establishing for an arbitrary M' program a sequence of mappings, a decoupling of the program into M-admissible subprograms and a linking set of interludes.

CACM-2453
Information Theory Applied to the Conversion of Decision Tables to Computer Programs Using ideas from information theory, this paper develops a heuristic algorithm that converts a limited entry decision table to a tree structured computer program with near minimum average processing time. ... It is thus more general than the previously published heuristic algorithms.

CACM-1358
Syntax Macros and Extended Translation A translation approach is described which allows one to extended the syntax and semantics of a given high-level base language by the use of a new formalism called a syntax-macro. ... Two types of macros are discussed, and examples are given of their use.

CACM-2688
This article analyses that cost and proposes a method called multiple key hashing which attempts to minimize it. ... Attribute Based File Organization in a Paged Memory Environment The high cost of page accessing implies a need for more careful data organization in a paged memory than is typical of most inverted file and similar approaches to multi-key retrieval.

CACM-3134
Moreover this method incorporates an improved modification of the inverted file technique. ... For a certain class of information systems, the normal multiplication table method yields far more rapid retrieval with a more economical space requirement than conventional systems.

CACM-3091
The ultimate objective was to develop a technique for predicting the amount of time necessary to create a computer program. ... Nine program characteristics emerged as major influences on program development time, each associated with increased program development time.

CACM-2083
The definition for the COMMON is contained in an easy to modify form, thus allowing the control of general communications of data between routines. ... The described system has been implemented on the IBM 7094, CDC 6000 series, and the IBM 360.

CACM-1385
Communist China is adjudged to have a marginal computer capability, with most of its machines probably being of a binary nature; however, a turning point may have been reached in mid-1965. ... Computer Technology in Communist China, 1956-1965 Based on information from translations of Communist Chinese news items and periodical literature for the 1965 period, computer technology in China is reviewed under the following headings: (1) initial planning, organization and educational aspects of computer technology and automation; (2) machine development progress: two major specific machines in 1958-59, with Soviet aid; a vacuum in 1960-64 due to the withdrawal of Soviet aid; then presumably all-Chinese-made machines from 1965 to the present; (3) computer applications; (4) the trend of automation: control of production processes rather than data processing; and (5) the "Yun Ch'ou Hsueh" (Science of Operation and Programming) campaign of 1958-60, during which an attempt was made to bring concepts such as linear programming to ordinary Chinese workers and peasants.

CACM-2039
Permanent Function of a Square Matrix I and II (Algorithm 361 $G6)).

CACM-1821
Permanent Function of a Square Matrix I and II (Algorithm 361 [G6]).

CACM-0210
Recursive Functions of Symbolic Expressions and Their Computation by Machine, Part I.

CACM-1956
The analysis is parameterized in terms of the ratio of seek time to the time it takes to fill available core with records, and the file size in units of core lengths; and thus it can be applied to any conventional CPU/mass storage combination. ... It is found that the normalized read time for optimum merging on a given hardware configuration is proportional to the file length times the logarithm of the file length.

CACM-1440
Starting Approximations for Square Root Calculation on IBM System/360 Several starting approximations for square root calculation by Newton's method are presented in a form to facilitate their use in IBM System/360 square root routines. ... These approximations include several for the range [1/16, 1], which is the interval of primary interest on IBM System/360.

CACM-2863
VMIN-An Optimal Variable-Space Page Replacement Algorithm A criterion for comparing variable space page replacement algorithms is presented. ... The results of simulating VMIN, Denning's working set, and the page partitioning replacement algorithms on five virtual memory programs are presented to demonstrate the improvement possible over the known realizable variable space algorithms.

CACM-0492
Analysis of a File Addressing Method This paper presents a new file addressing method based on the calculation of an address from the identification of a record. ... For large recirculating type files, it seems to be more advantageous than customary ones.

CACM-1825
If an LR(k) processor can be constructed for each part (using Knuth's algorithm) and if certain conditions relating these individual processors are satisfied, then an LR(k) processor for the entire grammar can be constructed for them. ... These processors are capable of recognizing and parsing an input during a single no-backup scan in a number of steps equal to the length of the input plus the number of steps in its derivation.

CACM-1458
Online Programming When the transition has been made from off line to online programming, there are a number of changes in the working conditions noted. ... These changes in the environment make necessary corresponding changes in the processes related to producing and checking out programs.

CACM-2175
If the number of subexpressions which can be executed in parallel exceeds the number of available processors, then execution of some of these subexpressions must be postponed. ... Depending on the hardware environment in which the expression is to be executed, these subexpressions can be evaluated in serials, in parallel, or in a combination of these modes.

CACM-1683
Boolean matrix Methods for the Detection of Simple Precedence Grammars A mechanical procedure is derived for determining whether a given context-free phrase structure grammar is a simple precedence grammar. ... Application of the procedure to operator grammars is also given.

CACM-2321
On the Interface Between Computers and Data Communications Systems Future systems that combine computers, digital terminals, and communications equipment present design optimization problems that require reconsideration of the traditional functional responsibilities of the respective subsystems. ... Several "standard" interfaces, by means of which computers and digital terminals connect to the communications systems will be required.

CACM-1421
Part III describes a set of proposed standard procedures to be used with the language, including facilities for input/output. ... Part I consists of an introduction to the new language and a summary of the changes made to ALGOL 60, together with a discussion of the motives behind there visions.

CACM-2571
An Analytic Model of the Hasp Execution Task Monitor The HASP Execution Task Monitor periodically rearranges the OS/360 dispatching chain to give tasks preemptive execution priority in inverse order to that of their cpu utilization history. ... This paper develops a simple model of the Execution Task Monitor and employs it to study the effectiveness of the monitor in improving system performance.

CACM-1525
In this paper, the fast Fourier transform algorithm is briefly reviewed and fast difference equation methods for accurately computing the needed trigonometric function values are given. ... A scaling plan for computing the fast Fourier transform with fixed-point arithmetic is also given.

CACM-1327
A binary image of a given set of input conditions can also be created. ... This data image is used to scan the decision table image to arrive at the proper course of action.

CACM-2709
Several recent ideas on control structures are then explored. ... These include a review of various other control structures, results on time/space limitations, and theorems relating the relative power of control structures under notions of equivalence.

CACM-1134
The subject of this paper is the intermediate language and methods of manipulating it. ... Compilations of a series of arithmetic statements are discussed.

CACM-2245
, and dynamic predictors. ... It is concluded that a successful CPU scheduling method must be preemptive and must prevent a given job from holding the CPU for too long a period.

CACM-1062
Symbol Manipulation in FORTRAN-SASP I Subroutines A set of subroutines for use in FORTRAN are described whose purpose is to synthesize output strings from (i) input strings which have been analyzed by the SHADOW general syntactic analysis subroutine reported earlier, and/or (ii) packed BCD strings formed in any way. ... Function-type subroutines are included for intermediate manipulations, which are performed on the strings which are stored in an abbreviated internal representation.

CACM-1474
The purpose of this paper is to give precise descriptions of certain probabilistic models for roundoff error, and then to describe a series of experiments for testing the validity of these models. ... Tests of Probabilistic Models for Propagation of Roundoff Errors In any prolonged computation it is generally assumed that the accumulated effect of roundoff errors is in some sense statistical.

CACM-0619
Only those few names most closely resembling the requested name, with their phone numbers annexed, are presented for the agents final manual selecton. ... A program has been developed and operated on the Telefile (a stored-program core and drum memory solid-state computer) which will retrieve passengers' records successfully, despite significant misspellings either at original entry time or at retrieval time.

CACM-0039
The Secant Method for Simultaneous Nonlinear Equations  A procedure for the simultaneous solution of a system of not-necessarily-linear equations, a generalization of the secant method for a single function of one variable, is given.

CACM-2807
It is shown that in many respects suspicions are unfounded, and in general the absolute error in the solution is strictly comparable with that corresponding to Gaussian elimination with partial pivoting plus back substitution. ... On the Stability of Gauss-Jordan Elimination with Pivoting The stability of the Gauss-Jordan algorithm with partial pivoting for the solution of general systems of linear equations is commonly regarded as suspect.

CACM-2987
Representation of Many-Sided Polygons and Polygonal Lines for Rapid Processing A representation for polygons and polygonal lines is described which allows sets of consecutive sides to be collectively examined. ... A fast algorithm for testing the inclusion of a poin t in a many-sided polygon is given.

CACM-2902
Simple algorithms operating on memory ordered lists (without any free list) performed surprisingly well. ... Algorithms main taining separate free space lists for each size of memory block used tended to perform quite well compared with other algorithms.

CACM-2809
S. ... An example of application to operator norms is given concerning contraction properties of positive operators.

CACM-2946
An implementation of this primitive in terms of P and V operations is given together with a correctness proof. ... This paper describes another synchronizing primitive which is nearly as expressive as the conditional wait, but can be implemented more efficiently.

CACM-1739
The compiler accepts a regular expression as source language and produces an IBM 7094 program as object language. ... Examples, problems, and solution are also presented.

CACM-2535
Analytical and simulation results are based on the model of the computer-communications system being an M/D/1 queue (the multiplexor) in tandem with a single exponential server (the computer). ... It is concluded that while, for certain values of system parameters, there is noticeable improvement in the performance of the computer (model), in the sense that time-shared scheduling delays are reduced, these improvements are offset by the transmission delays imposed by multiplexing so that there may be little or no change in the computer-communications system performance.

CACM-2537
The storage technique gives rise to a mathematical optimization problem: determine how each message should use the available phrases to minimize its storage requirement. ... The method relies on hand selection of a set of text strings which are common to one or more messages.

CACM-1566
The problem of obtaining optimal starting values. ... A table of optimal polynomial starting values is given.

CACM-0063
It analyzes the applicability of binary trinities of the octal diagrams to modern electronic-digital-computer design logic. ... Octal Diagrams of Binary Conception and Their Applicability to Computer Design Logic This paper dates back the genesis of binary conception circa 5000 years ago, and octal diagrams about 4800 years ago, as derived by the Chinese ancients.

CACM-3203
Thus, GRAD must recognize necessary simplifications without external guidance. ... It is designed for use with problemms in which a large amount of routine manipulation is to be done by a program without human intervention.

CACM-2076
Arcs of two cubics suffice to construct a basis of cardinal splines. ... Cubic Splines on Uniform Meshes A very simple procedure is presented for constructing cubic splines, periodic or nonperiodic, on uniform meshes.

CACM-2310
The implications of the computer for a "science" of the humanities-a science entailing gathering data for the construction and testing of models-are neither widely recognized nor accepted. ... This paper argues that the computer's major role as to language analysis in the humanities will be the establishing of such a sciencehus, for those areas of the humanities for which rigor and precision are necessary (e.

CACM-2701
The algorithm can be extended to yet larger classes of function spaces and graphs by relaxing the time bound. ... Consequently a restriction to one-entry one-exit control structures linearity.

CACM-2704
The proposed language features serve to highlight exception handling issues by showing how deficiencies in current approaches can be remedied. ... Exception Handling: Issues and a Proposed Notation This paper defines exception conditions, discusses the requirements exception handling language features must satisfy, and proposes some new language features for dealing with exceptions in an orderly and reliable way.

CACM-1048
Approximate Solution of Axially Symmetric Problems A variety of physical problems in such diverse fields as electrostatic field theory, heat and ideal fluid flow, and stress concentration theory reduce, under the assumption of axial symmetry, to the study of an elliptic partial differential equation. ... Dirichlet-type problems associated with this equation are studied on regions whose boundaries include a nondegenerate portion of the x-axis and exceedingly accurate numerical methods are given for approximating solutions.

CACM-2065
Structure operators are defined which manipulate picture-forms to produce new pictures-forms. ... Picture structuring is considered as the vehicle for man-machine communication.

CACM-2696
A Method of Bivariate Interpolation and Smooth Surface Fitting Based on Local Procedures A method is designed for interpolating values given at points of a rectangular grid in a plane by a smooth bivariate function z=z(x,Y). ... The interpolating function is a bicubic polynomial in each cell of the rectangular grid.

CACM-2727
Multiple Byte Processing with Full-Word Instructions A method is described which allows parallel processing of packed data items using only ordinary full-word computer instructions, even though the processing requires operations whose execution is contingent upon the value of a datum. ... It provides a useful technique for processing small data items such as alphanumeric characters.

CACM-2138
BLISS: A Language for Systems Programming A language, BLISS, is described. ... This language is designed so as to be especially suitable for use in writing production software systems for a specific machine (the PDP-10): compilers, operating systems, etc.

CACM-2849
An Ethernet's shared communication facility, its Ether, is a passive broadcast medium with no central control. ... Ethernet: Distributed Packet Switching for Local Computer Networks Ethernet is a branching broadcast communication system for carrying digital data packets among locally distributed computing stations.

CACM-2003
An Interactive Software System for Computers-Aided Design: An Application to Circuit Project The characteristics of an interactive software system, intended to constitute an interface between designer and computer during various steps of the design process, are presented. ... The application to computer-aided circuit design is in particular examined; on the other hand, the adopted design criteria provide sufficient generality to extend the use of the two languages to different computer-assisted applications.

CACM-1429
The method is suited to both hand and computer calculation. ... Matrix Reduction Using the Hungarian Method For The Generation of School Timetables The application of Kuhn's Hungarian Method to the problem of matrix reduction as needed in Gotlieb's method for timetable generation is described.

CACM-1143
These methods have been applied to artificially-generated sets of data as well as to the results of experiments with radioactive tracers on both human and animal subjects. ... Analysis of Decay-Type Data* A comparative study has been made of a variety of numerical techniques for fitting experimental data of the decay type by forms involving the sums of exponentials.

CACM-1444
An Algorithm for Generating Projective Reduction Formulas for Matrix Elements of Many-Electron Wavefunctions An ALGOL procedure is given for automatically generating formulas for matrix elements arising in the variational solution of the Schrodinger equation for many-electron systems.

CACM-0951
The related coefficients for the approximations of Ki1, Ki2, Ki3 are given for different precisions. ... Rational Chebyshev Approximations to the Bessel Function Integrals Kis(x) The second Remes algorithm is used to approximate the integrals Kis by rational functions.

CACM-0718
An Experiment in Automatic Verification of Programs  How effective is a compiler at replacing explicit verification, and what is the cost of this technique?.

CACM-1928
Essential objectives sought are improved ease and economy in model generation, economy in execution time and space, and a facility for handling simultaneous activities. ... Certain aspects of the techniques described may be used for the simulation of network structures other than digital networks.

CACM-2912
Concurrent Reading and Writing The problem of sharing data among asynchronous process is considered. ... Two general theorems are proved, and some algorithms are presented to illustrate their use.

CACM-1003
Usually this results in by passing much of the mathematical procedures conventionally used. ... To handle the complexities arising from varying thermal-relaxation times of concentric insulating layers, a computer program was developed which gives the temperature distribution of the system as a function of radius and time.

CACM-3040
An algorithm is developed that can achieve any level of consistency desired, in order to preprocess the problem for subsequent backtrack search, or to function as an alternative to backtrack search by explicitly determining all solutions. ... A theory of consistency levels in such networks is formulated, which is related to problems of backtrack tree search efficiency.

CACM-2889
Both analytical and experimental results that show the cost of maintaining HB[k] trees as a function of k are discussed. ... 465 restructures are required per insertion, with an average of 2.

CACM-2938
By adhering to a strict programming discipline and by using a suitable high-level language molded after this discipline, the complexity of reasoning about concurrency and execution time constrain ts may be drastically reduced. ... A possible discipline is outlined and expressed in terms of the language Modula.

CACM-1066
Emphasis in this paper is devoted to the underlying principles upon which future linear programming systems must be based. ... e.

CACM-1260
By using the cut step procedure for convergence and by imposing physical constraints on the functional form of the calculation it is possible to make the analysis on a small computer. ... Least-Squares Analysis of Resonance Spectra on Small Computers The problem of analyzing data from a Mossbauer effect experiment is discussed.

CACM-1594
By continuing in this manner, applications of the algorithm will generate all (K-1)! circular orderings, or since each circular ordering yields K permutations the algorithm generates all K! permutations. ... An Algorithm for Generating Permutations An algorithm is described which under repeated application generates all permutations of K elements.

CACM-2971
The resulting language is suitable for in troducing programming concepts used in various applications, including business data processing, scientific calculations and non-numeric computation. ... P/8.

CACM-2568
One such formulation is: Given a nondirected network, partition its nodes into a minimal number of subsets such that no two members of the same subset are connected by anarc. ... Most of these formulations can be presented in the terminology of classical Network Theory.

CACM-2144
An algorithm is given for accurately summing N t-digit floating-point numbers. ... Each of these is then added to the appropriate one of n auxiliary t-digit accumulators.

CACM-1032
Two approaches to file organization are discussed. ... Theoretical Considerations in Information Retrieval Systems Information storage and retrieval systems are composed of three major components: (a) identification of information and tagging it for effective retrieval, (b) searching strategy, how to enter the file to circumvent the scanning of nonrelevant material, and (c) file organization to make access to information efficient.

CACM-2695
The advantages of using such a transformation include the absence of round-off errors and improved computation time when compared with standard transformations. ... A graph theoretic algorithm which examines an arbitrary n x n matrix and determines whether or not it can be permuted into tridiagonal form is given.

CACM-2425
The Programmer as Navigator.

CACM-2897
Such a compiler translates the parsed source code into lower level code by a sequence of steps. ... The traditionally difficult PL/I concatenate statement was investigated as a detailed example.

CACM-2999
An Approach to Multidimensional Data Array Processing by Computer Some recent work on the development of general-purpose computer-based statistical and data processing capabilities for handling multidimensional arrays of data is presented. ... This is followed by a summary of some recent developments in array processing capabilities at the World Bank, in particular, the system identified as WRAPS(World Bank Retrieval and Array Processing System).

CACM-3023
A final section tabulates some of the important parameters of the various IBM machines which implement the architecture. ... It covers virtual storage, program control, data-manipulation instructions, timing facilities, multiprocessing, debugging and monitoring, error handling, and input/output operations.

CACM-2297
These changes in memory configuration are represented explicitly in the model, CPU requirements and page exception characteristics of program material being described statistically. ... Expressions for the distribution of the number of page-frames allocated to an executing program, the long run expected fraction of a program's execution time in a given number of page-frames, and the average execution interval of the multiprogrammed load are obtained.

CACM-2031
The number of arithmetic operations and the number of storage locations are linear in n. ... ACM Algorithm 386.

CACM-2739
The Restriction Language for Computer Grammars of Natural Language Over the past few years, a number of systems for the computer analysis of natural language sentences have been based on augmented context-free grammars: a context-free grammar which defines a set of parse trees for a sentence, plus a group of restrictions to which a tree must conform in order to be a valid sentence analysis. ... As the coverage of the grammar is increased, an efficient representation becomes essential for further development.

CACM-0121
Over-all Computation Control and Labelling.

CACM-2753
A Heuristic Problem Solving Design System for Equipment or Furniture Layouts The Designer Problem Solver (DPS) demonstrates that the computer can perform simple design tasks. ... These space planning tasks usually involve manipulating two-dimensional representations of objects to create feasible or optimal solutions for problems involving topological and metric spatial constraints.

CACM-1533
Further applications of the model are discussed. ... A Marovian Model of the University of Michigan Executive System A mathematical model of a computer's executive system is postulated and its parameters estimated with the aid of extensive data on the system's operation.

CACM-3179
Yet, these technologies also generate problems. ... Overview of the EFT Symposium It is increasingly recognized that large-scale technologies such as EFT have the potential for aiding in the solution of current societal problems.

CACM-2922
The feasibility of recognizing these two levels is discussed, stressing that the structure to be managed at the choice level is a free of contexts. ... The proposed attitude aims at retaining the purity of the nondeterministic formulation of search processes on one level (the attempt level), deferring the coordination of problem solving efforts to another (the choice level).

CACM-2994
This paper describes methodology for producing dot or step patterns closet to the true circle. ... A Linear Algorithm for Incremental Digital Display of Circular Arcs Circular arcs can be drawn on an incremental display device such as a cathode ray tube, digital plotter, or matrix prin ter using only sign testing and elementary addition and subtraction.

CACM-2573
Computer Programming as an Art.

CACM-2867
It is shown that the concepts of module and level do not coincide in a hierarchy of functions. ... Family members can share much software as a result of the implementation of run-time modules at the lowest system level.

CACM-3117
This growth, however, has been at a slower rate than predicted in the early 1970's. ... police departments.

CACM-2945
Certification of Programs for Secure Information Flow This paper presents a certification mechanism for verifying the secure flow of information through a program. ... Because it exploits the properties of a lattice structure among security classes, the procedure is sufficiently simple that it can easily be included in the analysis phase of most existing compilers.

CACM-1589
Use of the system requires a minimum of experience or instruction, since the growth of an overlaying system control language has been prevented, and there are no processor-oriented statements, like variable type or dimension declarations. ... DIALOG: A Conversational Programming System with a Graphical Orientation DIALOG is an algebraic language for online use with a graphical input-output console device.

CACM-2918
Alternative memory organizations are compared and it is shown that a home memory organization, in which each processor is associated with one or more memories in which its address space is concentrated, is quite effective in reducing memory in terference. ... Trace-driven simulations are used to verify the conclusions of the analysis.

CACM-2811
The syntax-driven waveform analysis system has been applied with good results to these pulse waves to detect and measure structural variations. ... The waveform parsing system is modeled on a compiler-compiler system and allows the user to enter application specific information as data.

CACM-2248
When the equations are defined in unbounded domains, as in the initial value (Cauchy) problem, the solution of the integral equation by the method of successive approximation has inherent advantages over other methods. ... Error bounds for the methods are of order h^(3/2) and h^(7/2) (his the increment size) depending on the finite difference approximations involved.

CACM-2668
Computation of Page Fault Probability from Program Transition Diagram An algorithm is given for calculating page fault probability in a virtual memory system operating under demand paging with various memory sizes and replacement rules. ... A detailed example is given to illustrate the algorithm for Random and Least Recently Used (LRU) replacement rules.

CACM-2749
Significant Event Simulation This paper compares a new method of simulation organization, called the significant event method, with an old one, called the clock pulse method, using as examples two automobile traffic models. ... The significant event method is found to be more efficient than the clock pulse method at low levels of system interaction and less efficient at high levels.

CACM-0693
The technique has not been proven to be optimal in the sense that the one-dimensional Fibonaccian search is. ... However, it is valuable for certain kinds of calculations.

CACM-1257
With this program, an online user may insert or delete (in symbolic assembly language) any number of lines at any point of his previously assembled program in core, with the remainder of the program being relocated appropriately. ... DEBUG-An Extension to Current On-Line Debugging Techniques A method of on-linr assembly-language debugging which greatly simplifies several of the bookkeeping tasks characteristically associated with that process has been developed and implemented in a program for the UNIVAC M-460 computer at Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories.

CACM-1354
A drawback of the technique as hitherto presented is its liability to produce object programs of longer run time than necessary. ... Conversion of Decision Tables to Computer Programs by Rule Mark Techniques The rule mask technique is one method of converting limited entry decision tables to computer programs.

CACM-1139
FORTRAN IV as a Syntax Language*.

CACM-2650
The method should find applications in information retrieval, artificial intelligence, and spelling correction systems. ... B is viewed as a reasonable "correction" for the possibly erroneous string a, where a was originally intended to be a string of L.

CACM-1700
A search program using the device has been operational since late 1963. ... If, at search time, the logical product (using the AND operation) of this mask and a similarly constructed question mask is not equal to the question mask, then one or more question words are not present in the store item.

CACM-1754
The basic purpose of the paper is to provide a useful perspective from which the utility of various hardware facilities may be assessed. ... Dynamic Storage Allocation Systems In many recent computer system designs, hardware facilities have been provided for easing the problems of storage allocation.

CACM-0435
A Decision Matrix as the Basis for a Simple Data Input Routine Currently a great deal of time and effort is being spent on the development of bigger and better compiler languages, multiprogram executive systems, etc. ... It is with this somewhat neglected area that the author is interested.

CACM-2275
The strategy which yielded success consisted of three essential points: (1) fit the known experimental data by a curve with properties which derive from properties of the (as yet unknown) function; (2) stabilize the computation for the unknown function by using singular value decomposition; (3) constrain the unknown function approximation (since it represents a probability distribution) to be nonnegative. ... A number of test cases are presented.

CACM-2545
The general approach is to create, in-so-far as possible, a bottom-up parse from a top-down specification. ... A Theory of Discrete Patterns and Their Implementation in SNOBOL4 The notion of a discrete pattern is formalized and certain properties deduced.

CACM-1349
The effects of these constraints are explicated. ... Present equipment capabilities vary from moderate to large scale; however, many institutions plan to acquire complex time-shared systems in the near future.

CACM-2557
On the Time Required for a Sequence of Matrix Products This paper discusses the multiplication of conformable sequences of row vectors, column vectors, and square matrices. ... Algorithms are presented which properly parse such matrix sequences subject to the constraints of the machine organization.

CACM-3160
$Note: Following this presentation of the report, there is a position paper on the crisis in experimental computer science written by the ACM Executive Committee. ... on November 2, 1978.

CACM-2915
Considerations for Future Programming Language Standards Activities This paper reviews the current state of programming language standards activities with respect to the anomalies which exist between the various published and proposed standards for Fortran, Cobol, PL/I, and Basic. ... Proposals are made for the inclusion of formalisms within future standards and the extension of the standards to include additional items such as error conditions and documentation.

CACM-1869
Two modifications to SNOBOL are described, resulting in two desirable consequences: (1) naming constraints disappear even when there is indirect addressing within function definitions; and (2) there is a significant saving in the number of calls to the garbage collector, because some garbage is collected, at little expense, each time a function returns to its calling program. ... These modifications have been implemented as an extension to a SNOBOL dialect.

CACM-2202
This microstorage is used to contain both data and subroutines. ... In particular, the processor developed in this paper stresses the simultaneous operation (within the microinstruction) of the adder, shifter, masker, and testing facilities of the processor.

CACM-0671
Both bank and equipment criteria are specified which led to the development of the Telefile System of The Teleregister Corporation. ... Benefits to the bank are discussed from the banker's point of view; an indication of future trends in the on-line savings bank field is also discussed.

CACM-0241
Machine Calculation of Moments of a Probability Distribution A method is presented for the calculation on a machine of the moments of a probability distribution, necessitating little more than n additions and n references to memory for each moment, instead of the minimum of n multiplication, 2n additions, and 2n references to memory required by the most straightforward method (where n is the number of entries in the probability distribution). ... The method is directly applicable when a tabulated distribution exists, as when it has been computed by repeated convolution; but in this case it conserves both time and accuracy.

CACM-0699
Scale factors along the axes may be different and the axes need not be perpendicular. ... A Contour-Map Program for X-Ray Crystallography A FORTRAN program is described for use with the IBM 7090 system and an X, Y-plotter to produce a contour map.

CACM-2247
The criteria used in arriving at the decompositions are discussed. ... The unconventional decomposition, if implemented with the conventional assumption that a module consists of one or more subroutines, will be less efficient in most cases.

CACM-1827
The Date Collection Facility (DCF) has been implemented in the Michigan Terminal System (MTS) for the System/360 model 67. ... The overall structure of MTS is outlined in order to explain the implementation of the DCF.

CACM-2541
This freedom simplified both incremental compilation and the system's addressing structure, and centralized the communication mechanisms enabling the construction of hierarchical subsystems. ... An Overview of the ISPL Computer System Design This paper explores the advantages of the concurrent design of the language, operating system, and machine (via microcode) to create an interactive programming laboratory.

CACM-2498
Minimizing Wasted Space in Partitioned Segmentation A paged virtual memory system using a finite number of page sizes is considered. ... Two algorithms for assigning pages to segments are discussed.

CACM-1764
After making prepared statements, the panelists were joined in discussion by Andries van Dam and Arthur Bohn, who had presented papers in the first half. ... Pertinent papers are included in the references.

CACM-3170
The specification is easy to understand, and its correctness is manifest to humans. ... On the Proof of Correctness of a Calendar Program A formal specification is given for a simple calendar program, and the derivation and proof of correctness of the program are sketched.

CACM-1237
It is presumed that the reader is familiar with the nature of decision tables and conventional definitions. ... In addition to table analysis, the nature of table-oriented programming languages and features is discussed.

CACM-0824
When one can call subroutines that compute new coordinates that correspond to those obtainable from the graphical constructions, there is the three-way advantage of the approach of descriptive geometry, the accuracy of computation and the speed of the digital computer. ... However, in addition to this it unifies and simplifies the approach to many such problems.

CACM-1652
The code set is organized so that simple binary operations can distinguish between the numeric alphabetic, special symbol and control character codes. ... This code, called IPC (Information Processing Code), is an 8-bit code set constructed so that 7, 6, 5 and 4-bit subsets can be easily derived from the basic set.

CACM-1409
All hardware development has been aimed toward the concept of easy modification, elaborate console controls for effective man-machine interaction and low cost. ... The design objectives as originally conceived in a special seminar were: (1) to be a research project in computer design; (2) to be usable as an educational machine;and (3) to have easily modifiable hardware for basic research in computer systems design.

CACM-1482
The main concept of the system is the use of a collection of programmable pointers, which are visualized as a family of "bugs. ... ".

CACM-2127
Natural Language Question-Answering Systems: 1969 Recent experiments in programming natural language question-answering systems are reviewed to summarize the methods that have been developed for syntactic, semantic, and logical analysis of English strings. ... It is concluded that at least minimally effective techniques have been devised for answering questions from natural language subsets in small scale experimental systems and that a useful paradigm has evolved to guide research efforts in the field.

CACM-3130
Issues related to undergraduate computer science education, such as service courses, supporting areas, continuing education, facilities, staff, and articulation are presented. ... The core curriculum common to all computer science undergraduate programs is presented in terms of elementary level topics and courses, and intermediate level courses.

CACM-3050
). ... This paper presents a management game that allows the player to configure a computer system to meet a hypothetical job mix is under the control of a game administrator and can be varied to simulate a variety of real-world situations (I/O bound jobs, compute bound jobs, etc.

CACM-0137
Evaluating Numbers Expressed as Strings of English Words.

CACM-2900
In this paper we present three theorems which can be applied a priori to indicate that certain sites should (or should not) be included in an optimal allocation. ... Heuristics and other aids to finding optimal, or near-optimal, solutions are therefore much needed.

CACM-1445
The possibilities of giving the student a better technical as well as conceptual understanding of statistics were explored for a number of years at the College of Medicine of the University of Cincinnati and are reported here. ... Not so obvious are the many pedagogic aids the computer can offer in teaching the subject matter.

CACM-1977
The coefficients of the approximation are determined by linear programming so as to minimize the error in either the L1 or L-infinity norm. ... This interactive system is described and several examples of its use are given.

CACM-1399
The effect of allowing null strings in the rewriting rules is discussed. ... On Top-to-Bottom Recognition and Left Recursion A procedure is given for obtaining structural descriptions in a context-free grammar by performing the recognition according to a strongly equivalent, left-recursion-freegrammar.

CACM-2567
When compared to a standard fourth order Runge-Kutta implementation, computation time required by this method has ranged from comparable for certain nonstiff problems to better than two orders of magnitude faster for some highly stiff systems. ... An Exponential Method for the Solution of Systems of Ordinary Differential Equations  An explicit, coupled, single-step method for the numerical solution of initial value problems for systems of ordinary differential equations is presented.

CACM-1334
Formulas for over 100 Newcomb operators have been produced by the program and typeset photographically on an S-560 Photon system. ... Mechanization of Tedious Algebra: The Newcomb Operators of Planetary Theory A computer program has been written to generate tables of formulas for the Newcomb operators of planetary theory.

CACM-0236
Soviet Cybernetics and Computer This article records observations on Soviet research and technology in cybernetics and computer science, made by the author during a visit to the Soviet Union as a delegate to the IFAC Congress on Automatic Control held in Moscow in the summer of 1960.

CACM-2066
An Algol Construction for Procedures as Parameters of Procedures.

CACM-2517
Some Comments on the Use of Ambiguous Decision Tables and Their Conversion to Computer Programs This paper comments upon recently published work on decision table translation using methods similar to the rule-mask technique. ... The applicability of these methods under various possible conventions on overall table meaning is discussed, and it is argued that there is a place both for the multi-rule and the single-rule (or action set) convention in decision tale usage.

CACM-2692
For perspective applications in three dimentions, a six-plane truncated pyramid is chosen as the clipping volume. ... In two dimensions the algorithms permit clipping against irregular convex windows.

CACM-1184
This scheme, used in the LLLLLL or L6 (Bell Telephone Laboratories Low-Level <B>List</B> Language), makes available blocks of computer registers in several different sizes: the smaller blocks are obtained by successively splitting larger ones in half, and the larger blocks are reconstituted if and when their parts are simultaneously free. ... A Fast Storage Allocator A fast storage bookkeeping method is described which is particularly appropriate for list-structure operations and other situations involving many sizes of blocks that are fixed in size and location.

CACM-3146
An Academic Program Providing Realistic Training in Software Engineering An academic program at Harvey Mudd College, called the Clinic program, brings projects from industry on campus to be studied and solved by student teams. ... Experience so far has shown that the program is a viable transition from an academic to industrial world.

CACM-0068
University policies, organization, administration, faculties, students, researches, curricula, equipment, and financing were investigated. ... The Role of the University in Computers, Data Processing and Related Fields A study was made of university programs in the United States in the fields of computers, data processing, operations research, and other closely related fields.

CACM-1978
In this paper we discuss some of the advantages accrued by such systems and design considerations for interactive routines. ... Several on-line systems for general purpose mathematical problem solving have already been implemented as well as some special purpose systems for solving problems in a particular area such as ordinary differential equations.

CACM-2147
Using Computers in Higher Education: Past Recommendations, Status, and Needs Data from a survey conducted with National Science foundation support, which was published in December 1970, is reviewed, and it is pointed out that, with regard to computers in higher education, national goals stated in the Rosser and Pierce Reports have not been attained. ... , offered in 1966-67.

CACM-2884
B. ... Permutation Enumeration: Four New Permutation Algorithms Classical permutation enumeration algorithms encounter special cases requiring additional computation every nth permutation when generating the n! permutations on n marks.

CACM-2267
Algorithms To Reveal Properties of Floating-Point Arithmetic Two algorithms are presented in the form of Fortran subroutines. ... The methods are shown to work on any "reasonable" floating-point computer.

CACM-2015
The validity of the technique is demonstrated for weak precedence grammars defined here, but the productions mechanically generated for any precedence grammar can often be modified in such a way that correct, almost optimal parsers are obtained. ... A Technique for Generating Almost Optimal Floyd-Evans Productions for Precedence Grammars A technique is developed for generating almost optimal Floyd-Evans productions given a precedence grammar.

CACM-2189
Generation of Rosary Permutations Expressed in Hamiltonian Circuits Systematic generation of a specific class of permutations fundamental to scheduling problems is described. ... Each of them corresponds to two circular permutations which mirror-image each other, and is generated successively by a number system covering 3*4*.

CACM-2150
" The "readers" may share the section with each other, but the "writers" must have exclusive access. ... Concurrent Control with "Readers" and "Writers" The problem of the mutual exclusion of several independent processes from simultaneous access to a "critical section" is discussed for the case where there are two distinct classes of processes known as "readers" and "writers.

CACM-1728
These data are used also for the evaluation of page replacement algorithms and for assessing the effects on performance of changes in the amount of storage allocated to executing programs. ... Further Experimental Data on the Behavior of Programs in a Paging Environment Results are summarized from an empirical study directed at the measurement of program operating behavior in those multiprogramming systems in which programs are organized into fixed length pages.

CACM-1843
The Choice of Base A digital computer is considered, whose memory words are composed on N r-state devices plus two sign bits (two state devices). ... The choice of base B for the internal representation of floating-point numbers on such a computer is discussed.

CACM-1247
The available services include dynamic allocation of storage for contiguous blocks of arbitrary size, input and output for a hierarchy of data types, a public pushdown <B>list</B> for automatic recursive programming, a rudimentary compiler for subroutine communication and bookkeeping, and debugging aids. ... An Operating Environment for Dynamic-Recursive Computer Programming Systems Presented in this paper is a brief nontechnical introduction to OEDIPUS, a computer programming system which can serve as an operating environment for dynamic and/or recursive programs and programming systems.

CACM-2907
The Optimal Approach to Recursive Programs The classical fixed poin t approach toward recursive programs suggests choosing the "least defined fixed poin t" as the most appropriate solution to a recursive program. ... A new approach is described which in troduction an " optimal fixed point," which, in contrast to the least defined fixed poin t, embodies the maximal amount of valuable information embedded in the program.

CACM-1002
Programs are available for implementing both the synthesis of these filters, and their application on computers whose assemblers allow the definition of recursive macros. ... The filters are constructed from a succession of readily analyzable components in a manner that facilitates cascading.

CACM-1916
Analysis of these models prior to execution yields information valuable in determining segmentation of instructions and data for a time-shared environment, as well as for initial page loading; during execution, the analysis may be used for "look ahead" control of page turning. ... A transformation of the combined model yields a new model in which additional timing information is also contained.

CACM-1906
a long horizontal slit) is stepped down the board. ... e.

CACM-3110
Assembling Code for Machines with Span-Dependent Instructions Many modern computers contain instructions whose lengths depend on the distance from a given instance of such an instruction to the operand of that instruction. ... This paper considers the problem of minimizing the lengths of programs for such machines.

CACM-2379
The system is defined by a combination of microprograms and software. ... In this paper the development of the system is described, with particular emphasis on the principles which guided the design.

CACM-3030
We apply this method to a significant <B>list</B> processing problem and also discuss a number of extensions to current programming languages that ease hierarchical program design and proof. ... Users of hierarchical techniques claim or predict substantial increases in productivity and in the reliability of the programs produced.

CACM-3079
An Algorithm for Reasoning About Equality A simple technique for reasoning about equalities that is fast and complete for ground formulas with function symbols and equality is presented. ... A proof of correctness is given as well.

CACM-3101
The SL5 Procedure Mechanism This paper describes an integrated procedure mechanism that permits procedures to be used as recursive functions or as coroutines. ... This integration is accomplished by treating procedures and their activation records (called environments) as data objects and by decomposing procedure invocation into three separate components at the source-language level.

CACM-1692
The difficulty may be removed by a standard line iterative technique. ... The slow convergence of point iterative methods is analyzed and shown to be caused by one of the boundary conditions.

CACM-3167
Updating Mean and Variance Estimates: An Improved Method A method of improved efficiency is given for updating the mean and variance of weighted sampled data when an additional data value is included in the set. ... Evidence is presented that the method is stable and at least as accurate as the best existing updating method.

CACM-2220
The first relies on Shannon's noiseless coding theorem and the communications concept of entropy but does not completely test the ELSE Rule. ... Both modifications result in modification guarantees a globally optimal solution.

CACM-1960
The main features of the system include the ability given to any user to schedule his own parallel processes using system primitive operations, the file-memory relationship, and the allocation-scheduling policy, which dynamically takes into account recent information about user behavior. ... Emphasis is placed on basic ideas underlying the design rather than on implementation details.

CACM-3148
Based on primitive notions of module, message, and transaction key, the methodology is shown to be independent of particular languages and machines. ... This paper describes an approach to distributed computing at the level of general purpose programming languages.

CACM-2479
It is felt that the importance of these two reasons justifies the addition of the recommended course. ... The proposed addendum is to include in the curriculum a course on Information Systems administration.

CACM-3181
Public Protection and Education with EFT Research has revealed the existence of widespread misinformation and lack of knowledge about EFT among business and government as well as consumers. ... As a result, any effort to stimulate meaningful public participation in decisions on the introduction of EFT systems will require a coordinated educational effort of considerable scale.

CACM-3133
Logic and Semantic Networks An extended form of semantic network is defined, which can be regarded as a syntactic variant of the clausal form of logic. ... On the other hand, by regarding semantic networks as an abstract data structure for the representation of clauses, we provide a theorem-prover with a potentially useful indexing scheme and path-following strategy for guiding the search for a proof.

CACM-2020
An attempt is made to clarify some of these misunderstandings and to highlight the advantages and disadvantages and to highlight the advantages and disadvantages of pricing. ... Inasmuch as pricing must serve as a rationing mechanism at times, consideration is given to the means by which prices can be adjusted flexibly in order to make a dynamic allocation of resources.

CACM-1674
The advantages are speed (avoiding linkage to and from a subroutine), convenience, and versatility. ... e.

CACM-1767
A system has been designed to produce such a language quickly and cheaply. ... A General Purpose Graphic Language Interactive use of computers with graphic terminals will permit many new problems to be solved using machines.

CACM-1552
The AED Free Storage Package The most fundamental underlying problem in sophisticated software systems involving elaborate, changing data structure is dynamic storage allocation for flexible problem modeling. ... The Free Storage Package of the AED-1 Compiler Systems allows blocks of available storage to be obtained and returned for reuse.

CACM-1564
The only optimization attempted is the elimination of obviously unnecessary tests on certain conditions in the decision table. ... Since the preprocessor and this language associated with it were developed for COBOL users, the preprocessor was written in a modular form in required COBOL-61.

CACM-0855
The concepts for sorting and performing file maintenance processing using the proposed structure and executive routine are discussed. ... The following areas are covered: characteristics of Bryant Disc File Systems on the Bendix G-20 and RCA 301; two proposed "chaining" structures for data; and functions of a Disk File Executive Routine.

CACM-1572
The resulting model has a general purpose design and can be used to study a variety of time-sharing systems. ... The development of a comprehensive simulation model to assist in the investigation of these questions is described in this paper.

CACM-1194
The indexing system is described in detail. ... The main features of the information system are direct user access via on-line teletypewriter console, direct user access to all details of the system organization, unrestricted and expandable search vocabulary, user access through many facets of document indexing, and stochastic search through linked index terms and other file relationships.

CACM-1425
In the second part of the paper, the second method is applied to the theory of Turing machines. ... Although not every diagram is decomposable into a finite number of given base diagrams, this becomes true at a semantical level due to a suitable extension of the given set and of the basic mappings defined in it.

CACM-2164
The first, from artificial intelligence, led to Slagle's SAINT and to a large degree to Moses' SIN. ... Symbolic Integration: The Stormy Decade Three approaches to symbolic integration in the 1960's are described.

CACM-1695
Data resulting from the simulation of a network may be analyzed by a variety of techniques ranging from examinations of the gross characteristics of the data to the determination of detailed statistical properties. ... Convenient means for specification and modification of a network and extensive error-checking capabilities are provided.

CACM-0495
In order to solve the normal equations and evaluate the precision measures of the resulting parameters, inversion of this matrix of coefficients is required. ... A Procedure for Inverting Large Symmetric Matrices In the least squares method for simultaneous adjustment of several parameters, the coefficients of the normal equations are the elements of a symmetric positive-definite matrix.

CACM-1223
The double scan, one in either direction, performed by the first two passes, allows the compiler to remove locally constant expressions and recursively calculable expressions from loops and to do the important part of common subexpression recognition. ... Optimization such as the effective use of index registers, although as important, is not discussed since the object code which would be most efficient is highly machine dependent.

CACM-2558
An attempt is made to distinguish between access limitation and authentication. ... Protection in Programming Languages Linguistic mechanisms which can be used to protect one subprogram from another's malfunctioning are described.

CACM-1504
Our algorithm is slower than an algorithm presented by Welch by a ratio of N/3 (N is the number of nodes) but requires less storage. ... For graphs with a large number of nodes and edges, when storage is limited our algorithm is superior to Welch's; however, when the graphs are small, or machine storage is very large, Welch's algorithm is superior.

CACM-2109
The Use of Quadratic Residue Research A quadratic residue search method has previously been suggested to avoid the clustering usually encountered when hash address collisions occur and linear search methods are used. ... The search size, because of the property of quadratic residues, is limited to one half of the storage table.

CACM-0894
An Iterative Factorization Technique for Polynomials An iterative technique is displayed whereby factors of arbitrary degree can be found for polynomials in one variable. ... For factors of degree two, the technique is similar to that of Bairstow, the present method being somewhat simpler.

CACM-1167
On the Translation of Machine Language Programs Automatic translation of machine language programs is becoming a highly desirable goal with the advent of new large-scale computers. ... The pitfalls that make it difficult to achieve completely automatic translations are analyzed, and it is shown that these are primarily of a semantic nature.

CACM-2800
Connections Between Accuracy and Stability Properties of Linear Multistep Formulas This paper is concerned with stability and accuracy of families of linear k-step formulas depending on parameters, with particular emphasis on the numerical solution of stiff ordinary differential equations. ... An upper bound, p=k, is derived for the order of accuracy of A(inf)-stable formulas.

CACM-2424
Dynamic Verification of Operating System Decisions Dynamic verification of a decision implies that every time the decision is made there is a consistency check performed on the decision using independent hardware and software. ... The technique of dynamic verification allows the construction of an operating system which does not make certain decisions improperly even in the presence of a single hardware or software fault.

CACM-2525
A Statistical Study of the Accuracy of Floating Point Number Systems This paper presents the statistical results of tests of the accuracy of certain arithmetic systems in evaluating sums, products and inner products, and analytic error estimates for some of the computations. ... Further, the usual round mode with guard digits is shown to be statistically superior in accuracy to the usual chop mode in all cases save one.

CACM-3193
Work is in progress on a formula coding technique allowing direct entry into the computer of formulae typed on an 84 character Flexo-writer. ... This Flexo-writer will be modified for automatic half-line advance and retract, without carriage return, to permit completely general sub and superscripting.

CACM-1782
The intervals are equally spaced on a log scale. ... Such a formulation is useful in Fourier analysis to improve accuracy and ease of usage.

CACM-2134
An Extension of the Munkres Algorithm for the Assignment Problem to Rectangular Matrices The assignment problem, together with Munkres proposed algorithm for its solution in square matrices, is presented first. ... Then the authors develop an extension of this algorithm which permits a solution for rectangular matrices.

CACM-0040
The greater simplicity of a binary arithmetic unit and the greater compactness of binary numbers both contribute directly to arithmetic speed. ... Less obvious and perhaps more important is the way binary addressing and instruction formats can increase the overall performance.

CACM-2135
Algorithms are developed for rapid computation of L (Q) for a wide class of selections of Q which includes the Lagrangian and Hermitian rules as special cases. ... The attempt is made to approximate L (f) with L (Q) where Q is a polynomial, approximating f.

CACM-0396
It also enforces analysis of debugging criteria, resulting in verifiably accurate programs. ... Applications are quite flexible, and the system can be used alone or in conjunction with other debugging techniques.

CACM-2261
The method, which uses a uniform zero-one random number source, is based on the inverse function of the lambda distribution of Turkey. ... An Approximate Method for Generating Symmetric Random Variables A method for generating values of continuous symmetric random variables that is relatively fast, requires essentially no computer memory, and is easy to use is developed.

CACM-0670
It is essential to identify and provide for many legal aspects right now, before systems and practices crystallize, in order to avoid the later impact of unanticipated physical complications and expense. ... The legal ramifications involve not only the mechanization itself, but also the very significant, economically attractive phenomenon of off premises processing.

CACM-0146
The Use of Computers in Engineering Classroom Instruction  On April 29-30, the Computer Committee of the College of Engineering, University of Michigan, which acts as a steering committee for The Ford Foundation Project on the Use of Computers in Engineering Education, held a special conference to discuss certain timely topics pertinent to the Ford Project. ... This report contains a condensed transcription of the key ideas offered by the conference attendees on selected topics.

CACM-1159
Machine Independence: Its Technology and Economics A survey is offered of techniques for transferring programs, and especially compilers, from one computer to another. ... Finally, reasons are given for believing that the machine-independence problem is being substantially diminished by current trends in computer design, and that it is this process of convergence in hardware design rather than any foreseeable software developments that will lead to its satisfactory resolution.

CACM-1553
The importance of context to both human and machine understanding is stressed. ... Contextual Understanding by Computers A further development of a computer program (ELIZA) capable of conversing in natural language is discussed.

CACM-1455
" Through the ability of TRAC to accept and store definitions of procedures, the capabilities of the language can be indefinitely extended, and can deal with character strings, integers and Boolean vector variables. ... In the TRAC language, one can write procedures for accepting, naming and storing any character string from the typewriter; for modifying any string in any way; for treating any string at any time as an executable procedure, or as a name, or as text; and for printing out any string.

CACM-1595
An interesting side result of the computational work was the unearthing of a theoretical error which had been induced into the literature; the use of the computer in combinatorics represents, chronologically, an early application, and this side result underscores its continuing usefulness in this area. ... Certain fundamental results are established, leading to an algorithm for enumerating finite topologies, and computed results are given for n <= 7.

CACM-2864
Characteristics of Program Localities The term "locality" has been used to denote that subset of a program's segments which are referenced during a particular phase of its execution. ... In this paper the concept of a locality is made more explicit through a formal definition of what constitutes a phase of localized reference behavior, and by a corresponding mechanism for the detection of localities in actual reference strings.

CACM-2581
The system is locally-organized in the sense that it builds local parse structures from reliable word candidates recognized anywhere in an input utterance. ... LPARS processes a string of phonemes which contains ambiguity and error.

CACM-3053
Introduction of frequency weights further improves retrievals, but the enhancement may degrade cutoffs. ... The displacements are depth-limited approximations to an enumerative (exhaustive) optimization, although packing costs remain linear-O(n)-with table size n.

CACM-1381
Student interest in this development is intense and if properly utilized should yield a much better understanding of mathematical concepts as well as the ideas of programming and logical structure which have been introduced into many fields by the use of computers. ... An early introduction to programming is desirable to permit a continuing use of automatic computation to illustrate and clarify mathematical concepts.

CACM-1110
An application is given for which the method shows a considerable advantage over conventional finite difference methods. ... A Fourier Series Method for the Numerical Solution of a Class of Parabolic Partial Differential Equations* A Fourier series method is described which, when applied to a certain class of parabolic partial differential equations, reduces the problem to a system of ordinary differential equations.

CACM-0380
Comparison of Iterative Methods for the Calculation of nth Roots Three iterative methods for calculation of nth roots (including one proposed by the author) are compared in two ways: (1) Theoretical convergence estimates are given. ... (2) A new macrocompiler which estimates machine running time is used to compare the running time of the three methods for a variety of input data.

CACM-1384
The Committee believes that these requirements should assure the student of a broad mathematical background and should enable him to take a wide variety of courses in other scientific disciplines. ... The Committee's concern is to develop a solid scientific approach to Computer Science.

CACM-2544
Several numerical examples are given for polynomials with real and complex roots and one example for the Bessel function of the first kind. ... Automatic Error bounds for Simple Zeros of Analytic Functions The Cauchy-Ostrowski theorem on convergence of Newton iterates for an analytic function in one variable is extended to include computational errors using complex interval arithmetic.

CACM-1875
Polynomial and Spline Approximation by Quadratic Programming The problem of approximation to a given function, or of fitting a given set of data, where the approximating function is required to have certain of its derivations of specified sign over the whole range of approximation, is studied. ... Two approaches are presented, in each of which quadratic programming is used to provide both the constraints on the derivatives and the selection of the function which yields the best fit.

CACM-1750
An observation is made on the use of conventional, slower speed, random access storage devices in place of the faster memory. ... Considerations in the Design of a Multiple Computer System with Extended Core Storage The use of large quantities of addressable (but not executable) fast random access memory to heighten the multiprogramming performance of a multicomputer system is discussed.

CACM-2094
Examples are given to illustrate that this algorithm can give satisfactory results and, in particular, can successfully solve problems which lead to difficulties with the more conventional specialist method. ... On an Algorithm for Nonlinear Minimax Approximation Certain nonlinear minimax approximation problems are characterize d by properties which permit the application of special algorithms, mainly based on the exchange algorithms of Remes (1934, 1935), for their solution.

CACM-1365
It is an extension of FORTRAN IV which permits the use of the computer to perform the tedious algebraic computations that arise in many different fields. ... In addition to its usage for specific problem solutions, FORMAC can also be used to automate the analysis phase in certain production programming.

CACM-1675
It is shown that applications of the improvement factor beyond the first time are ineffectual, and that the factor is but a scale factor. ... A Note on a Relevance Estimate and Its Improvement In this paper the effect of iterating the improvement procedure is examined.

CACM-1153
A Fast Procedure for Generating Normal Random Variables* A technique for generating normally distributed random numbers is described. ... It is faster than those currently in general use and is readily applicable to both binary and decimal computers.

CACM-3013
The second uses the difference between the mean and median gray levels in a neighborhood. ... The outputs obtained from these operators applied to a set of test pictures are compared with each other and with the standard digital Laplacian and gradient.

CACM-2940
In this paper the abstraction techniques are extended from simple data representation and function definition to the iteration statement, the most important poin t of interaction between data and the control structure of the language itself. ... Results are obtained that for common special cases of these loops are essentially identical to the corresponding constructs in other languages.

CACM-1271
Experimental results are presented and a comparative analysis is given. ... Secondary Key Retrieval Using an IBM 7090-1301 System The secondary key retrieval method involves the preparation of secondary storage lists from primary data records.

CACM-1811
Communication between cooperating processors is by means of data in storage shared by all processors. ... It is shown that, with proper programming, solution time when N processors are applied approaches 1/N times the solution time for a single processor, while improper programming can actually lead to an increase of solution time with the number of processors.

CACM-2130
Automatic Segmentation of Cyclic Program Structures Based on Connectivity and Processor Timing Time-shared, multiprogrammed, and overlayed batch systems frequently require segmentation of computer programs into discrete portions. ... Segmentation techniques proposed by C.

CACM-1926
It is written entirely in FORTRAN IV. ... Description of FORMAT, a Text-Processing Program FORMAT is a production program which facilitates the editing and printing of "finished" documents directly on the printer of a relatively small (64k) computer system.

CACM-2870
The model provides a unifying view of all systems that restrict information flow, enables a classification of them according to security objectives, and suggests some new approaches. ... The central component of the model is a lattice structure derived from the security classes and justified by the semantics of information flow.

CACM-1413
A Vision of Technology and Education Educational technology is currently quite fashionable. ... This ignorance stems largely from ignorance about the social response to potential technological change.

CACM-3066
The study also shows that there is a tremendous amount of variability among subjects and that the ability to detect certain types of errors varies from method to method. ... The results show that the popular code walk through/inspection method was as effective as other computer-based methods in finding errors and that the most effective methods (in terms of errors found and cost) employed pairs of subjects who tested the program independently and then pooled their findings.

CACM-1088
Up to 30 percent saving on food cost is possible. ... A fast, special integer programming algorithm is described which approximates the theoretical solution to the problem.

CACM-1870
Some Techniques for Using Pseudorandom Numbers in Computer Simulation An algorithm is described by which uniform pseudorandom integers may be used to construct binary "numbers" in which the probability that each bit in the word is a 1-bit and can assume any desired parameter value. ... Techniques for making use of such "numbers" in simulation programming are described.

CACM-2954
A Bounded Storage Algorithm for Copying Cyclic Structures A new algorithm is presented which copies cyclic <B>list</B> structures using bounded workspace and linear time. ... Unlike a previous similar algorithm, this one makes no assumptions about the storage allocation system in use and uses only operations likely to be available in a high-level language.

CACM-1620
Three such methods are described and illustrated. ... Although some of these methods do not appear to be practically useful because of rounding-error difficulties, several methods of evaluating low-degree polynomials have been found to be satisfactory.

CACM-2858
This may be, for example, achieving the smallest number of long instructions, in which case the total code length is minimized, or minimizing the assigned address of a specified point in the program. ... The algorithm is suitable for arbitrary program structure and a choice of optimization criteria.

CACM-1161
The IBM System/360 has been designed with the conversion problem specifically in mind. ... One of the conversion aids available on the Model 30 is the 1401 compatibility feature.

CACM-2734
The time-memory-product efficiencies of first-fit and best-fit were generally within 1 to 3 percent of each other. ... When the coefficient of variation of the request distribution is greater than or approximately equal to unity, first-fit outperformed best-fit.

CACM-1186
Recursive Solution of a Class Of Combinatorial Problems: An Example Combinatorial problems requiring the selection of n elements from a set of m elements may be solved by a recursion process analogous to that for computing binomial coefficients. ... Several specific problems are analyzed, the general technique is exposed, and an ALGOL program is developed for one of the problems.

CACM-0483
It is shown that no formal mechanisms of the type used are sufficient to define ALGOL 60. ... On the Nonexistence of a Phrase Structure Grammar for ALGOL 60 ALGOL 60 is defined partly by formal mechanisms of phrase structure grammar, partly by informally stated restrictions.

CACM-2740
The system is proved to be free of "deadly embrace" (deadlock). ... The project management and the performance are discussed, too.

CACM-3042
Power Trees The new class of Pk trees is presented, where height balance is maintained for the nodes Iying on particular paths. ... The average behavior of such trees, studied by an extensive set of simulation runs, is close to that of AVL trees.

CACM-1469
One is the choice of written appearances of programs (or more generally, their physical representation). ... Within this framework the design of a specific language splits into two independent parts.

CACM-3163
An Optimal Insertion Algorithm for One-Sided Height-Balanced BInary Search Trees An algorithm for inserting an element into a one-sided height-balanced (OSHB) binary search tree is presented. ... Earlier results have shown that deletion in such a structure can also be performed in O(log n) time.

CACM-1684
Processors which automatically translate tables to more conventional program usually base their diagnostic facilities on these rules. ... The theoretical basis of the algorithm used is established.

CACM-3147
It uses a straight forward search technique to determine aggregations of computations, aggregations of datasets, device, organization, and key order for each data set, key order for each computation, and access method for each dataset-computation pair. ... Although computational results are presented for a sample problem involving 54 computations and 49 datasets, the main point of the paper is that the underlying model works computationally an d is simple enough to be adapted to many file design situations.

CACM-2860
A specific design example is presented and solved. ... A Practitioner's Guide To Addressing Algorithms This paper consolidates a number of popular rules of thumb which have been suggested for the design of record addressing algorithms, and discusses the applicability of these rules to large commercial databases.

CACM-2146
This algorithm is relatively straightforward, but it requires a fairly close estimate of the total number of unit strings before the dispersion begins. ... The logic of this algorithm is rather complicated; hence, several other new dispersion algorithms with more straightforward logic are presented.

CACM-0858
The routine is designed to minimize elapsed computer time by varying the power of the merge cycles, so as to use all the available tape drives, with its characteristic of assigning one drive to a single-reel file and two drives to each multiple-reel file. ... A Tape File Merge Pattern Generator A routine is presented which specifies the sequence of merge cycles to effect the merging of sorted tape files.

CACM-0695
Approximately 260,000 words of disk storage are reserved for the storage of systems programs and the subroutine library. ... Certain programming techniques are discussed for transmitting words between disk and core storage with minimum delaying and interruption of the arithmetic unit.

CACM-1400
Free-Text Inputs to Utility Routines Through the use of some rather simple techniques, it is frequently possible to produce a program which will accept free-text inputs. ... The techniques are discussed and related to a general tape manipulation routine.

CACM-1428
SHOCK III, A Computer System As an Aid in the Management of Critically III Patients SHOCK III, an online digital computer system to assist the physician, nurse and paramedical personnel in monitoring and reporting on critically ill patients, is described.

CACM-3114
For most applications the algorithm isolates differences similar to those isolated by the longest common subsequence. ... A Technique for Isolating Differences Between Files A simple algorithm is described for isolating the differences between two files.

CACM-2966
The Choice of Reference Poin ts in Best-Match File Searching Improvements to the exhaustive search method of best-match file searching have previously been achieved by doing a preprocessing step involving the calculation of distances from a reference poin t. ... It is shown that reference poin ts should be located outside of data clusters.

CACM-2500
A Practical Approach to Managing Resources and Avoiding Deadlocks Resource scheduling and allocation can be expensive with regard to time and space in multiprogramming or time-sharing environments involving large numbers of tasks and resources with conflicting requirements. ... A resource management program is described which uses linked lists along with other techniques to overcome a large portion of this overhead.

CACM-3195
In the case of this department there is no radical change, but this is nevertheless the proper time to reiterate ans underline ACM's policy with respect to standardization in the computer area. ... Reiteration of ACM Policy Toward Standardization   The periodic change in officers, chairman and editors which usually follows as election occasionally results in a change in policy.

CACM-3084
The same holds if the cumulative distribution function of the keys is known. ... Computational experiments confirm these results.

CACM-2107
Comparisons with previous methods are made both analytically and empirically. ... The Quadratic Quotient Method: A Hash Code Eliminating Secondary Clustering Secondary clustering as a cause of hash code inefficiency is discussed, and a new hashing method based on its elimination is presented.

CACM-1463
More on Extensible Machines One of the most salient characteristics of extensible machines (EM) is the facility for providing system control over program-to-program and program-to-data linkage (e. ... , address connection).

CACM-0799
The methods given are largely applicable to the construction of ALGOL compilers. ... Versions of the same compiler for smaller machines require only two working tapes plus a compiler tape.

CACM-2873
LG: A Language for Analytic Geometry A conversational programming language for analytic geometry is described, together with some aspects of its implementation. ... It also provides the capability of specifying a geometric figure via a collection of parameters and displaying various loci corresponding to these parameters.

CACM-2582
The method is particularly suited to those systems where primary memory is managed according to a working set strategy. ... The data the method operates upon are extracted from a trace of the program to be restructured.

CACM-1835
Several novel and powerful features are included. ... IITRAN is a procedure-oriented language with a one-level block structure and a variety of data types.

CACM-2861
's in Computer Science. ... Production and Employment of Ph.

CACM-2794
A method for representing problems in first-order logic in such a way that the inference system employed by a resolution-based theorem prover determines whether the set of clauses is interpreted in the state-spacer mode or in the problem-reduction mode is presented. ... A representation of the language recognition problem which is based on the Cocke parsing algorithm is used as an illustration.

CACM-1169
Experimental results are presented with backboards formed by many elements and different initial placements. ... The procedure is similar to the Downhill Method for finding the minimum of a real function F(P), and can be applied to other placement problems.

CACM-3128
The relationship of the mechanism to protection mechanisms in the system is explained; in particular, eventcounts are shown to be applicable to situations where confinement of information matters. ... Direct control of ordering seems to simplify correctness arguments and also simplifies implementation in distributed systems.

CACM-2514
The user can control the rule selection procedure in a derivation or parse, using weighted programming matrices; he also has a choice of instance selection schemes (raster,random, parallel). ... An Array Grammar Programming System A package of Fortran programs has been developed that permits a user to interactively design and test array grammars.

CACM-2320
These concepts are sufficiently safe to use not only within operating systems but also within user programs. ... The notation used explicitly associates a data structure shared by concurrent processes with operations defined on it.

CACM-1292
Unlike the earlier methods of Stein and Pope, the present method uses a suitably rounded form of the normalized divisor for getting an estimate of the quotient characters. ... It is believed that this method will be widely applicable for division operations in variable word-length character-oriented machines.

CACM-0417
Techniques are suggested for making legal clearance effective with the least burden on the new technology and for achieving a favorable legal climate for it generally. ... Computer specialists also are alerted to potential opportunities to interpret to lawyers the technical aspects of computer systems involved in legal situations.

CACM-3190
Through an undetected programming error, the times and the resulting regression equation are slightly in error. ... Correction to Economies of Scale and the IBM System/360   On page 439, a "typical" instruction mix id discussed and the timing computed as outlined in that page.

CACM-2627
In this paper a deterministic model of independent tasks is introduced and new results are derived which extend and generalize the algorithms known for minimizing mean finishing time. ... Scheduling Independent Tasks to Reduce Mean Finishing Time Sequencing to minimize mean finishing time (or mean time in system) is not only desirable to the user, but it also tends to minimize at each point in time the storage required to hold incomplete tasks.

CACM-1749
The hierarchical structure proved to be vital for the verification of the logical soundness of the design and the correctness of its implementation. ... These sequential processes are placed at various hierarchical levels, in each of which one or more independent abstractions have been implemented.

CACM-2947
It uses a simple command language designating a function, a file, and a search template consisting of the textual string desired and strings delimiting the context in which the hit is to be delivered. ... It is implemented on a PDP/11 time-sharing computer invoked by a CRT with microprogrammed editing functions.

CACM-1997
A formula is derived expressing a in terms of the probability distribution of the "bound" of a partition. ... 140 for this version of quicksort compared with 1.

CACM-0630
This paper argues that readability can be added automatically in the translation process so that the programmer can enjoy the utmost economy of expression, while for management a full and valid COBOL version is printed to give all the advantages of readability and compatibility. ... An Evaluation of Autocode Readability Of the many requirements of an autocode, the pair of requirements "easy to read" and "easy to write" are not often compatible.

CACM-2128
The algorithm also has application to more general resource allocation problems. ... It is implemented by means of a method for efficiently handling dynamically changing segmented lists.

CACM-1999
Optimal Starting Approximations for Generating Square Root for Slow or No Divide On machine with slow or no division, it is preferable to use an iterative scheme for the square root different from the classical Heron scheme. ... The problem of optimal initial approximants is considered, and some optimal polynomial initial approximations are tabulated.

CACM-3116
Objects are represented as polyhedra or as piecewise planar surfaces. ... There are many potential interference problems in products made up of assemblies of components and in product manufacturing and testing.

CACM-0558
Substantial computer cost savings have been realized because of this procedure. ... This algorithm has been developed for linear programming codes; however, it would be valuable for the inversion of any non-dense matrix.

CACM-1411
The usual computing formulas were also evaluated in double precision. ... Comparison of Several Algorithms for Computation of Means, Standard Deviations and Correlation Coefficients Several algorithms for computation of basic statistics are compared by their performance on systematically generated test data.

CACM-2547
The representation, which has practical storage requirements, provides a rapid mean of searching large files for data associated with geometric position as well as with attribute value. ... An application of this representation to handling terrain information illustrates its utility.

CACM-3065
The importance of these results stems from the close relationship of right brother trees which have an insertion algorithm operating in O (log2 n). ... Further, although both insertion and deletion can be carried out in O (log n) time for right brother trees, it appears that the insertion algorithm is inherently much more difficult than the deletion algorithm-the reverse of what one usually obtains.

CACM-2935
's in Computer Science-1976 (Corrigendum). ... Production and Employment of Ph.

CACM-2214
Complex interval division is defined so as to assure smallest possible resulting intervals. ... Complex Interval Arithmetic Complex interval arithmetic is defined using real interval arithmetic.

CACM-0895
Tintner [1]. ... A Computational Extension of the Variate Difference Method Presented here is a computational extension of the variate difference method as developed by G.

CACM-1514
The expected gain and its probability distribution are derived as a function of: (1) the prior proportion of omitted terms, and (2) the coefficient of separation between two distributions corresponding to values of an adjustment statistic. ... An example evaluates the gain parameters for a typical information retrieval system.

CACM-1412
This data base includes indexes which facilitate cross referencing of account information so that all relationships between bank and customer may be discerned. ... Generally, this system must interface with other computer applications already existing within the bank.

CACM-2436
A set of examples attempts to stake out the boundaries of the problem. ... A Note on the Confinement Problem This note explores the problem of confining a program during its execution so that it cannot transmit information to any other program except its caller.

CACM-3122
's in Computer Science - 1977 and 1978. ... Production and Employment of Ph.

CACM-2004
A Procedure for Generation of Three-dimensional Half-toned Computer Graphics Presentations A description is given of an algorithm for producing computer generated half-tone presentations of three-dimensional polygonal surface structures. ... An extension of the procedure to variable position illumination sources is also given.

CACM-1829
It was developed at Carnegie-Mellon University for the CDC G21 computer, which is a general purpose, batch-processing system with remote entry. ... The existing G21 system and the graphics hardware are described.

CACM-2765
The inverted data base (file) organization is then analyzed, considering implementation oriented aspects. ... Analysis and performance of Inverted Data Base Structures The need to envision and architecture data base systems in a hierarchical level by level framework is stressed.

CACM-2839
It is seen that this restriction reduces the extra memory requirements by half (from two extra bits per node to one) and maintains fast search capabilities at a cost of increased time requirements for inserting new nodes. ... An Insertion Technique for One-Sided Height-Balanced Trees A restriction on height-balanced binary trees is presented.

CACM-2307
The proposed procedures provide powerful tools for information retrieval and for the control of dynamic library collections in which new items are continually added and old ones are retired. ... A new dynamic document environment is then outlined in which clustered files are searched and information is retrieved following an interactive user-controlled search process.

CACM-2952
Functions Realizable with Word-Parallel Logical and Two's-Complement Addition Instructions.

CACM-1303
A Correspondence Between ALGOL 60 and Church's Lambda-Notation: Part II*.

CACM-0249
Specification Languages for Mechanical Languages and Their Processors*-A Baker's Dozen.

CACM-1550
Even though the results are influenced by the fact that "bonus points" were given for completion of a programming problem in less than a specified number of runs, there is evidence to support "Instant" over "Batch". ... A Comparison of Batch Processing and Instant Turnaround A study of the programming efforts of students in an introductory programming course is presented and the effects of having instant turnaround (a few minutes) as opposed to conventional batch processing with turnaround times of a few hours are examined.

CACM-2816
Optimal Reorganization of Distributed Space Disk Files In most database organizations, the cost of accessing the database will increase due to structural changes caused by updates and insertions. ... By reorganizing the database,the access costs can be reduced.

CACM-0794
A List-Type Storage Technique for Alphameric Information A method which is economic in terms of space and time is proposed for the storage and manipulation of character strings of arbitrary length in a fixed word-length computer. ... The method is illustrated in an application to Algol-type identifiers in an Algol-like block structure.

CACM-1681
Easy English,a Language for Information Retrieval Through a Remote Typewriter Console Easy English is a natural command language designed to simplify communication between man and machine through remote typewriter console. ... It has been developed for retrieval of documents from a computerized data base, the Moore School Information Systems Laboratory files.

CACM-2880
The mathematical foundations of the algorithm are presented as well as some performance measures. ... The method has proved very useful implemented as microcode ona binary machine, and can be adapted directly into hardware.

CACM-2522
Two implementations along these principles have been reported, but it seems that in neither case have further results been announced. ... The Design, Implementation, and Evaluation of a Working Set Dispatcher The behavior of a computer system is largely dependent upon the algorithms employed to allocate the system resources to the processes competing for them.

CACM-3036
An implementation of the algorithm has reduced the number of characters transmitted by from 7 to 30 percent, but requires a prepass through the document to compute a matrix used in determining the optimal set tab stops. ... This feature can be used to reduce the number of characters that are needed to represent a document for transmission and printing.

CACM-1685
Also, a general idea of a language for performing calculations on activity networks (scheduling activity networks) is given. ... A defining description of a programming language designed for generating activity network from a set of standard networks is presented.

CACM-2898
This paper describes a conceptual framework for a high level programming language providing both nonprocedural and sequential facilities. ... The requirement to indicate irrelevant sequencing can be removed if the language provides facilities for specifying a task in a nonprocedural manner.

CACM-2049
Comparison of the error bound for this method with that of the standard summation method shows that it is considerably less sensitive to propagation of round-off error. ... Accurate Floating-Point Summation This paper describes an alternate method for summing a set of floating-point numbers.

CACM-2047
This paper presents a new method which has neither drawback. ... Incorporating Origin Shifts into the QR Algorithm for Symmetric Tridiagonal Matrices The QR iteration for the eigenvalues of a symmetric tridiagonal matrix can be accelerated by incorporating a sequence of origin shifts.

CACM-2624
Formal techniques are used to derive precise sufficient conditions to test whether such an architecture can support virtual machines. ... the DEC PDP-10, cannot support a virtual machine system.

CACM-1955
Characteristic Values and Associated Solutions of Mathieu's Differential Equation (Algorithm 352 $S22)).

CACM-1866
Characteristic Values and Associated Solutions of Mathieu's Differential Equation (Algorithm 352 [S22]).

CACM-1307
In the system described, the user is not required to learn or remember the vocabulary of the language because the vocabulary is displayed before him on"menus" by means of a computer-drive scope. ... The program restricts the user severely in the particular language he can use, but the method for communicating with the program makes these restrictions seem quite natural and unconstraining.

CACM-1398
Robot Data Screening: A Solution to Multivariate Type Problems in the Biological and Social Sciences A new approach is outlined toward the solution of the type of multivariate problem that is found usually in the biological and social sciences as well as in medicine. ... Criteria for the acceptance of a variable as well as the termination of the searching process are derived from information theory.

CACM-1907
A Note on Reliable Full-Duplex Transmission over Half-Duplex Links A simple procedure for achieving reliable full-duplex transmission over half-duplex links is proposed. ... The scheme is compared with another of the same type, which has recently been described in the literature.

CACM-1502
Notable features are its ability to handle any piece of text, the content-searching facility, and the character-by-character editing operations. ... An Online Editor An online, interactive system for test editing is described in detail, with remarks on the theoretical and experimental justification for its form.

CACM-2262
Garbage Collection for Virtual Memory Computer Systems In <B>list</B> processing there is typically a growing demand for space during program execution. ... This paper examines the practical implications of this growth within a virtual memory computer system, proposes two new garbage collection techniques for virtual memory systems, and compares them with traditional methods by discussion and by simulation.

CACM-1951
Data were examined from four operational multiaccess systems, and the model is shown to be robust; that is each of the variables of the model has the same distribution independent of which of the four systems is being examined. ... It is shown that the gamma distribution can be used to describe the discrete variables.

CACM-3067
Empirical data from an actual system are included. ... The GWS is a model for the entire class of demand-fetching memory policies that satisfy a resident-set inclusion property.

CACM-1945
The importance and application of formalism are considered and also the need for good empirical experimentation. ... A bibliography of programming references is included.

CACM-1571
It is anticipated that, with the accumulation of experience using the present system, significant advances will be possible in the system design through determination of interface parameters between the biological scientist and the digital computer. ... The system represents an attempt to provide research workers of the Institute with the ability to interact directly with a highly sophisticated digital computing complex in the most direct and simple fashion possible.

CACM-2105
A successful design may require numerous modifications of the original design. ... The design is simulated, and a graphic representation of the processed signal is returned to the scope.

CACM-0780
107 Gauss's Method, Alg. ... Algorithm 42 INVERT, Alg.

CACM-1417
Economies of Scale and the IBM System/360 Cost functions among five System/360 models are analyzed through examinations of instruction times, program kernels and a "typical" instruction mix. ... Comparisons are made between the data developed here and Grosch's Law which seems to be applicable to much of the data.

CACM-1745
A Position Paper on Computing and Communications The effective operation of free enterprise in creating the envisioned information service industry is dependent upon three accomplishments: (1) the restructuring of our information processing industry so that a clear division of costs is made among computing, communications, and the development of information services; (2) the wide use of multiaccess system concepts so that information services may share in the use of computer installations and so that the cost of their construction is reasonable; and (3) the development of public, message-switched communications services so that adequate provisions are made for information security.

CACM-2819
Various parameters in the algorithms are optimized to obtain a high degree of compression for sample texts. ... Four new algorithms for this operation are described and compared.

CACM-1544
The programmed scanner uses context to eliminate the ambiguity in transmission. ... A significant element of the system is a scheme for transmitting alphanumeric information by single strokes on a numeric keyboard.

CACM-2368
Since these games are played on graphs, the program is a good example of the implementation of graph algorithms. ... In fact, the major routines never need to know whether the computer is CONNECT or CUT.

CACM-3086
These problems provide an excellent opportunity for discussing the effects of the computational model on the ease of analysis and on the results produced. ... The existence of an  (n log n) lower bound to determine whether any two of n real numbers are within  of each other is also demonstrated.

CACM-2810
Professionalism in the Computing Field The term professional means different things to different people; nevertheless, there are certain general technical and social standards normally associated with a professional. ... In the last analysis, professional status is not bestowed; it is earned.

CACM-1362
Distinctions are drawn between code extension and such other concepts as "graphic substitution" or "syntactic representation" which are often used to meet similar requirements. ... Code Extension in ASCII* (An ASA Tutorial) The American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) contains a number of control characters associated with the principle of code extension, that is, with the representation of information which cannot be directly represented by means of the characters in the Code.

CACM-1747
To define the scope of the criteria, the notion of an abstract machine of a programming language and the notion of a virtual computer are explained. ... Examples of applications of the criteria concern the reading of a time-of-day clock, the synchronization of parallel processes, protection in multiprogrammed systems, and the assignment of capability indexes.

CACM-3021
A message is encrypted by representing it as a number M, raising M to a publicly specified power e, and then taking the remainder when the result is divided by the publicly specified product, n, of two large secret prime numbers p and q. ... A Method for Obtaining Digital Signatures and Public-Key Cryptosystems An encryption method is presented with the novel property that publicly revealing an encryption key does not thereby reveal the corresponding decryption key.

CACM-2276
For the exponential distribution a definite recommendation can be made, whereas in the case of the normal distribution there remains a choice between slower and shorter algorithms and faster but space consuming methods. ... Computer Methods for Sampling from the Exponential and Normal Distributions Various methods are known for transforming uniformly distributed random numbers into exponentially and normally distributed quantities.

CACM-2283
It is found that the algorithm operating with the triangular array is the most sensitive to image irregularities and noise, yet it will yield a thinned image with an overall reduced number of points. ... Pictorial results produced by each of the algorithms are presented and the relative performances of the algorithms are compared.

CACM-1457
Data Manipulation and Programming Problems in Automatic Information Retrieval Automatic information retrieval programs require the manipulation of a variety of different data structures, including linear text, sparse matrices, and tree or <B>list</B> structures. ... A variety of data representations which have been used to describe structured information are then examined, and the characteristics of various processing languages are outlined in the light of the procedures requiring implementation.

CACM-1225
The advantages and disadvantages of the system are discussed in comparison to those of an immediate constituent analyzer, developed at the RAND Corporation with Robinson's English grammar. ... The Predictive Analyzer and a Path Elimination Technique Some of the characteristic features of a predictive analyzer, a system of syntactic analysis now operational at Harvard on and IBM 7094, are delineated.

CACM-0392
Comment on A Paper on Parallel Processing.

CACM-1611
Scheduling Project Networks Some of the basic concepts and terminology of project networking are developed. ... The error detection and network analysis features of the algorithm are also described.

CACM-3016
Finally, a means of estimating the error inherent in the decomposition of certain models is presented. ... An example of a nearly decomposable system is considered, and the results obtained by the different methods examined.

CACM-2925
A new fast algorithm for finding such cycles is utilized. ... Optimal Surface Reconstruction from Planar Contours In many scientific and technical endeavors, a three-dimensional solid must be reconstructed from serial sections, either to aid in the comprehension of the object's structure or to facilitate its automatic manipulation and analysis.

CACM-0974
A technique is presented for the automatic analysis of long series heart cycles via a digital computer. ... A Technique for Reading Gapless Tapes Makes Electrocardiograph Analysis Feasible on the IBM 7090  To study arrhythmias and higher frequency components of the electrocardiogram, long series of patient heart cycles must be examined before valid comparison of different heart beats can be made.

CACM-2062
The Application of Sequential Sampling to Simulation: An Example Inventory Model Four different sequential sampling procedures are applied to the analysis of data generated by a computer simulation experiment with a multi-item inventory model. ... The computer costs of fixed sample size procedures versus sequential sampling procedures are compared.

CACM-2268
The integration methods represented include multistep methods (predictor-correctors), single-step methods (Runge-Kutta) and extrapolation methods (both polynomial and rational). ... A set of test problems on which the programs were tested is included in an appendix.

CACM-2216
The empirical tests, as well as the analytical results, are in agreement with previously published results for the first moment in the cases of uniform and nonuniform distribution of branching ratio, and for the second moment in the case of uniform distribution of branching ratio. ... The solution to the integral equation indicates that using more advanced algorithms in the family makes only minor reductions in the expected sorting effort, but substantially reduces the variance in sorting effort.

CACM-2315
The Production of Better Mathematical Software Some observations are made on steps to be taken toward the creation of better mathematical software. ... These steps suggest the need for a coordinated effort and the creation of a center to focus activities in this area.

CACM-2068
Comment on Multiprogramming Under a Page on Demand Strategy.

CACM-3080
The low level language programs need not be generated by a compiler and in fact could be hand coded. ... Some interesting results are the ability to handle programs that implement recursion by bypassing the start of the program, and the detection and pinpointing of a wide class of errors in the low level language programs.

CACM-1491
As an example, a generalization of ALGOL is described in full detail to demonstrate that concepts like block-structure, procedures, parameters, etc. ... The structure of a language is defined by a phrase structure syntax, the meaning in terms of the effects which the execution of a sequence of interpretation rules exerts upon a fixed set of variables, called the Environment.

CACM-2407
Material necessary for such programs is identified, and courses incorporating it are specifiedetailed course descriptions are presented. ... Program organization and a problems of implementation are discussed.

CACM-3094
The approach is described by using a specific grammar that defines simple arithmetic expressions. ... By binding to the variables actual numerical values corresponding to a given compiler-machine configuration, one can determine the execution time for that configuration.

CACM-3107
It is suggested that the method has advantages in both speed and programming simplicity over previous methods, especially for "difficult" combinations of parameter values. ... The method is compared with previously published methods both theoretically and through computer timings.

CACM-2988
A multiphase, analytically soluble model is proposed as being broadly applicable to the analysis of in teractive computer systems which use nonpaged memories. ... Memory Management and Response Time This paper presents a computationally tractable methodology for including accurately the effects of finite memory size and workload memory requirements in queueing network models of computer systems.

CACM-0202
The paper also describes a number of other novel diagnostic features which can be included in the system. ... A new method of specifying all diagnostic operations in a format similar to a computer program makes the system convenient to use and relatively simple to understand.

CACM-2645
The second processor is a set of procedures for algebraic manipulation which can be called by the user to operate on the formula produced by the first processor. ... The program whose efficiency one wishes to estimate is written in the first language, a go-to-less programming language which includes most of the features of Algol 60.

CACM-2643
Reduction techniques are developed, and the problem is shown to reduce to a covering problem. ... The Minimization of Spatially-Multiplexed Character Sets The paper describes a technique for compacting character sets in a digital computer while retaining fast access to individual bits.

CACM-2299
An Extensible Editor for a Small Machine with Disk Storage A design philosophy for developing a sophisticated utility program is illustrated by the actual design and implementation of a text editor. ... Such a data structure is described, and its merits are illustrated by the ease with which powerful extensions can be implemented in terms of a few basic editing function.

CACM-2726
) It will be shown that objectives (3) and (4) can be furthered with the above methods. ... Combining Decision Rules in a Decision Table The techniques for minimizing logic circuits are applied to the simplification of decision tables by the combining of decision rules.

CACM-2492
It requires a description of the problem in decision grid chart format and allows the development of decision tables within defined limits by avoiding, or at least minimizing, repetition of conditions and actions in the resulting tables. ... The Development of Decision Tables via Parsing of Complex Decision Situations A new parsing technique is proposed which allows parsing based only on syntactical characteristics of the decision problem.

CACM-2795
In generating sentences from meaning structures, the program employs both the information retrieval and deduction capabilities of the memory model. ... The model encompasses several diverse classes of linguistic knowledge, which include: (1) executable tests of conceptual properties stored in discrimination nets; (2) information relating conceptual to syntactic roles, stored in a word-sense dictionary, and (3) surface grammatical knowledge, stored in a formal grammar.

CACM-2125
A Note on Minimal Length Polygonal Approximation to a Digitized Contour A method for extracting a smooth polygonal contour from a digitized image is illustrated. ... A minimal perimeter polygon subjected to specified constraints is then chosen as the approximating contour.

CACM-1879
A Note on Storage Fragmentation and Program Segmentation The main purpose of this paper is the presentation of some of the results of a series of simulation experiments investigating the phenomenon of storage fragmentation. ... Two different types of storage fragmentation are distinguished: (1) external fragmentation, namely the loss in storage utilization caused by the inability to make use of all available storage after it has been fragmented into a large number of separate blocks; and (2) internal fragmentation, the loss of utilization caused by rounding up a request for storage, rather than allocating only the exact number of words required.

CACM-1511
The Damped Taylor's Series Method for Minimizing a Sum of Squares and for Solving Systems of Nonlinear Equations.

CACM-2924
An Interactive Computer Graphics Approach to Surface Representation An in teractive computer graphics method has been developed for the rapid generation of arbitrary shaped three-dimensional surfaces. ... Among the features of this method are algorithms which enable in teractive modification of the B-spline representation of the sectional curves.

CACM-3048
Simulation of the system model yields the timing and resource usage statistics needed for performance evaluation, without the necessity of emulating the system. ... Further, it appears that many of the sophisticated pipelining and buffering technique simplemented in the architecture of the IBM 360/91 are of little value when high-speed (cache) memory is used, as in the IBM 360/195.

CACM-0940
Generating Discrete Random Variables in a Computer This note is concerned with details of how to instruct a computer to choose one from many things with assigned probabilities. ... The method uses a uniform variable to direct the computer to a memory location; if this is done by a sequence of appropriately chosen conditional probabilities, efficient use of memory space and quite fast programs will result.

CACM-3175
The method is applies successfully to two examples. ... Every code letter is assigned probabilities of representing plain text letters.

CACM-0087
A Note on a Method for Generating Points Uniformly on N-Dimensional Spheres.

CACM-2155
This is based on directed graphs with named edges and transformations on these graphs. ... In addition, an implementation facility is described which could be part of a programming language, which allows a programmer who has expressed the semantics of an algorithm in terms of the graphs to then specify the implementation of some of his data structures in order to gain efficiency.

CACM-1015
As a by-product, this method provides a formula for an estimate of the maximum error associated with a given degree of approximation. ... Using this formula, a partitioning algorithm is obtained for dividing a basic interval into subintervals for which approximations of equal degree give equal maximum error.

CACM-2375
Then the choice of a utility function to measure total performance including system oriented and individual request oriented measures is described. ... Such a function allows one to differentiate among the scheduling policies over a wide range of input loading conditions.

CACM-2287
It is shown that for maps containing normal contour lines only, it suffices to distinguish between so-called "even" and "odd" lines. ... A New Approach to Automatic Scanning of Contour Maps The problem of automatic digitizing of contour maps is discussed.

CACM-1912
Both major kinds of appointment systems-individual and block-can be simulated. ... The purpose of the Simulator is to enable the user to evaluate the effectiveness of alternative appointment systems in a given clinical environment.

CACM-2808
The Lemniscate Constants The lemniscate constants, and indeed some of the methods used for actually computing them, have played an enormous part in the development of mathematics. ... This material can be used for teaching purposes, and there is much relevant and interesting historical material.

CACM-1272
"Heavy editing," which goes beyond mere correction and improvement of computer output, is exemplified by the use of a concordance in preparing a survey article or lecture. ... Other opportunities for heavy editing are described, chief among them being interpretation and expansion of computer output in such processes as factor analysis.

CACM-1185
The discussion covers primarily an example in which the technique is used to solve the pentomino problem-the problem of fitting 12 pentominos without overlapping into a plane area formed of 60 elemental squares. ... A program to Solve the Pentomino Problem by the Recursive Use of Macros A coding technique is described in which certain macro-instructions are given lists as arguments and are thereby used recursively.

CACM-0615
Addressing Multidimensional Arrays A useful method of representing a function of n variables is to consider the function to assume its values at selected points in n-dimensional space. ... It is noted that the index address transformation is computationally identical to the conversion of a number from a fixed to a mixed radix number system.

CACM-3025
The PDP-10's contributions to computing technology include: accelerating the transition from batch oriented to time sharing computing systems; transferring hardware technology within DEC (and elsewhere) to minicomputer design and manufacturing; supporting minicomputer hardware and software development; and serving as a model for single user and timeshared interactive minicomputer/microcomputer systems. ... The origin and evolution of the hardware, operating system, and languages are described in terms of technological change, user requirements, and user developments.

CACM-1636
An invariant imbeding technique is presented which is useful in overcoming these frequently encountered instabilities, and the results of some numerical experiments are given. ... Invariant Imbeding and the Numerical Integration of Boundary-Value Problems for Unstable Linear Systems of Ordinary Differential Equations In such diverse areas as radiative transfer in planetary atmospheres and optimal guidance and control, two-point boundary-value problems for unstable systems arise, greatly complicating the numerical solution.

CACM-1722
Methods of Convergence Improvement for Some Improper Integrals In the numerical integration of an improper integral of the first kind, it is customary to truncate the integral when the change yielded by the last iteration is less than some predetermined constant. ... The efficiency of such integration schemes can often be improved by use of recent advances in the theory of nonlinear transformations; however, for several important integrals, e.

CACM-2714
The paper presents an algorithm for merging A and B with the p parallel processors, which requires at most 2[log2 (2m+1)]+[3m/p] + [m/p][log2 (n/m)] steps. ... e.

CACM-3047
In addition, automatic classification of terrain, using satellite imagery, requires such alignment to deal correctly with the effects of varying sun angle and surface slope. ... Automatic navigation using visible light or radar images requires exact alignment of such images with digital terrain models.

CACM-2490
Efficient Algorithms for Graph Manipulation [H] (Algorithm A447) Efficient algorithms are presented for partitioning a graph into connected components, biconnected components and simple paths. ... ) If V is the number of vertices and E is the number of edges, each algorithm requires time and space proportional to max (V,E) when executed on a random access computer.

CACM-2258
Additional Results on Key-to-Address Transform Techniques: A Fundamental Performance Study on Large Existing Formatted Files.

CACM-0052
An Efficient Method for Generating Uniformly Distributed Points on the Surface on an n-Dimensional Sphere (Corrigendum).

CACM-1543
With the program prepared for this purpose the computer will derive the equations of motion in any coordinate system requested by the user. ... By the use of tensor calculus and a computer language designed to facilitate symbolic mathematical computation, a method has been devised whereby a digital computer can be used to do non-numeric work, that is, symbolic algebraic manipulation and differentiation.

CACM-1741
The image is written on a rotating drum memory. ... The inverse of the map generation process is required to calculate the coordinates of the point on the screen.

CACM-1616
This Appendix is intended as an example of the program output. ... Tensor Calculations on Computer: Appendix In the main text of the paper [Comm.

CACM-3006
Anomalies with Variable Partition Paging Algorithms Five types of anomalous behavior which may occur in paged virtual memory operating systems a redefined. ... One type of anomaly, for example, concerns the fact that, with certain reference strings and paging algorithms, an increase in mean memory allocation may result in an increase in fault rate.

CACM-0848
A Note on Range Transformations for Square Root and Logarithm There was the germ of an idea in two previous papers [1,2] which no one seems to have picked up in almost five years. ... For certain functions it seems desirable to transform the argument to a short range symmetric about 10.

CACM-1363
A General Method of Systematic Interval Computation for Numerical Integration of Initial Value Problems A procedure is given for continuously computing and monitoring the step size to be used by a self-starting, p-th order numerical integration method to solve an initial value problem. ... The procedure uses an estimate of the truncation error to calculate the step size.

CACM-1774
The implementation of semiautomatic overlay facility in a multiprogrammed system on the CDC 6600 is described in detail, with special reference to real time applications. ... Program Overlay Techniques The general features of program overlay systems are described.

CACM-2447
Numerical results and computer graphs are given for some of the kernel functions. ... Sard Kernels for Certain Bivariate Cubatures An error analysis for some bivariate cubatures is given.

CACM-1848
The Damped Taylor's Series Method for Minimizing a Sum of Squares and for Solving Systems of Nonlinear Equations (Algorithm 315 [E4, C5]).

CACM-1439
Mechanization of the Curve Fitting Process: DATAN A process for fitting a curve to approximate data and the problem it creates for the engineer-programmer is defined. ... The techniques developed to accomplish the mechanization are largely empirical, and are dependent for their information only on the actual data points.

CACM-2042
Treesort 3 (Algorithm 245 $M1)) The certification of an algorithm can take the form of a proof that the algorithm is correct. ... As an illustrative but practical example, Algorithm 245, TREESORT 3 for sorting an array, is proved correct.

CACM-1340
Multiplexing of Slow Peripherals The philosophy of a monitor which allows slow output devices to be multiplexed is presented.

CACM-2052
Scheduling to Reduce Conflict in Meetings Conflicts in scheduling can be treated as defining an undirected linear graph independently of the relation of the activities in conflict to additional constraints of time and space. ... Each connected component of such a graph, which can be found by an algorithm described by Gotlieb and Corneil, corresponds to a set of events that must be scheduled at different times.

CACM-0332
The widely used chaining method, based on a pseudo-random key transformation, is reviewed in more detail. ... An Indirect Chaining Method for Addressing on Secondary Keys Methods for entering random access files on the basis of one key are briefly surveyed.

CACM-0254
The recommendations of the Subcommittee for a standard subset of ALGOL 60 for use on small computers is presented here. ... SMALGOL-61 Prior to and during the 1961 Western Joint Computer Conference, several people in the Joint Users Groups had expressed interest in defining a "smalgol" language.

CACM-3090
This impact is a joint product of both the technical features of the computer-based system and of the organizational demands placed upon different agencies, administrators, and caseworkers. ... Automated Welfare Client-Tracking and Service Integration: The Political Economy of Computing The impacts of an automated client-tracking system on the clients, caseworkers, administrators, and operations of the welfare agencies that use it are reported.

CACM-1765
Expenditures, Sources of Funds, and Utilization of Digital Computers for Research and Instruction in Higher Education: 1964-65 with Projections for 1968-69 The Southern Regional Education Board published a complete report on a survey it conducted to determine the funding and characterize the utilization of computers used for research and instruction in institutions of higher education in the United States. ... The sampling survey is described and the estimates for this total population are presented.

CACM-2455
An experiment is performed to compare these trees with standard AVL trees and with balanced trees on the basis of mean retrieval time, of amount of restructuring expected, and on the worst case of retrieval time. ... It is shown that, by permitting imbalances of up to five units, the retrieval time is increased a small amount while the amount of restructuring required is decreased by a factor of ten.

CACM-2322
Standardized, inexpensive microcomputers on a single chip are predicted. ... These will be used extensively to provide logical functions for noncomputational devices and incidentally for the design of superscale computers.

CACM-1867
6662. ... On the Expected Lengths of Sequences Generated in Sorting by Replacement Selecting In the replacement-selecting technique of sorting, one is interested in the ratio L(j) of the expected length of the j-th sequence generated by the technique to the number of memory cells used.

CACM-1933
Prime factorization for 2**61 - 2 and a primitive root for 2**61 - 1, the next largest prime Mersenne number, are given for possible construction of a pseudo-random number generator of increased cycle length. ... Coding the Lehmer Pseudo-random Number Generator An algorithm and coding technique is presented for quick evaluation of the Lehmer pseudo-random number generator modulo 2**31 - 1, a prime Mersenne number with produces 2**31 - 2 numbers, on a p-bit (greater than 31) computer.

CACM-2080
The Nucleus of a Multiprogramming System This paper describes the philosophy and structure of a multiprogramming system that can be extended with a hierarchy of operating systems to suit diverse requirements of program scheduling and resource allocation. ... A fundamental set of primitives allows the dynamic creation and control of a hierarchy of processes as well as the communication among them.

CACM-0719
The availability of a variety of field delimiters allows the machine to push down or pop up more than one variable width item with one command. ... Single machine commands may push variable field items down into such stacks or pop them up.

CACM-1645
Coefficients and errors are given for the intervals [-. ... A Note on Computing Approximations to the Exponential Function Two methods are discussed which result in near minimax rational approximations to the exponential function and at the same time retain the desirable property that the approximation for negative values of the argument is the reciprocal of the approximation for corresponding positive values.

CACM-3129
Whenever one file runs out of space, the system must be reorganized. ... The files reside on a direct-access storage device in which storage space is limited.

CACM-2316
A section on chronology indicates the happenings of the significant previous time periods and the major topics of 1972. ... The major languages are listed with the reasons for their importance.

CACM-2195
In this technique the heuristic of the problem is not embedded in the recognition algorithm but is expressed in a figure of merit. ... A multistage decision process is then able to recognize in the input picture the optimal system of lines according to the given figure of merit.

CACM-2093
Behavior near the singularity was found to be the dominant factor, and a new estimate, based on a constant curvature assumption and parametric differences, was considered slightly better than the other choices considered. ... Comparisons are based on x^r, `; the inclusion of the noninteger powers makes this more realistic than the usual polynomial based comparison.

CACM-1366
Substantial costs can occur, particularly in training, implementation and computer time if an inappropriate language is chosenore and more computer simulation languages are being developed: comparisons and evaluations of existing languages are useful for designers and implementers as well as users. ... The computational characteristics of simulation are discussed with special attention being paid to a distinction between continuous and discrete change models.

CACM-0866
Sorting on Computers.

CACM-2339
A study was conducted to test the feasibility of translating verbal descriptions to numerical codes in a computer program. ... The results of the study clearly show that such procedures are feasible.

CACM-1261
Modeling and Simulation of Digital Networks The simulation of digital networks on a digital computer provides the engineer with an effective means of analyzing time-quantized logical behavior. ... The simplicity of utilizing the FORTRAN IV Programming System as a digital Network Simulator is discussed an illustrated.

CACM-1326
Boundary Networks A feasible computer procedure is described for determining the total or partial inclusion of arbitrarily given points and lines with respect to a set of general polygonal domains which partition a plane bounded region. ... A scheme for the computer representation of the boundaries of the domains and an algorithm, based on this scheme, for evaluating the inclusion relations are specified in detail.

CACM-2961
A program of further research is suggested. ... No statistically significant difference between flowchart and nonflowchart groups has been shown, thereby calling into question the utility of detailed flowcharting.

CACM-3024
Thus the user's investment of hundreds of man months of effort to develop Fortran programs for other contemporary computers is protected. ... The CRAY-1 is the only computer to have been built to date that satisfies ERDA's Class VI requirement (a computer capable of processing from 20 to 60 million floating point operations per second) [1].

CACM-1527
A Grammar Base Question Answering Procedure The subject of this paper is a procedure for the automatic retrieval of certain segments of stored information, either explicitly or implicitly represented, through questions posed in natural language sentences. ... This procedure makes use of a sentence recognition device for the class of grammars which will correctly decide between the grammatical and ungrammatical sentences of a natural language.

CACM-2683
This paper discusses techniques for mechanically synthesizing loop predicates. ... Because this is tedious and error prone, producing a program with complete, correct predicates is reasonably difficult and would be facilitated by machine assistance.

CACM-3108
Economical Encoding of Commas Between Strings A method for insertion of delimiters between strings without using new symbols is presented. ... As the lengths of the strings increase, the extra cost, in terms of prolongation, becomes vanishingly small compared to the lengths of the strings.

CACM-1325
Current attempts by the authors to extend the diagnostic capabilities of the present system are particularly concerned with increasing the fidelity of the adaptive matched filters, the development of three dimensional pattern analysis, the analysis of parallel electrocardiographer-computer diagnostic interaction, and a study of the possibility of introducing major, tree-like branching decisions early in the diagnostic process. ... It seems likely that efforts of this sort will lead to a satisfactory solution to the problem of the automatic diagnosis of electrocardiograms.

CACM-2154
Clarification of Fortran Standards-Second Report In 1966, after four years of effort, Fortran became the first programming language standardized in the United States. ... That work has continued and has resulted in the preparation of this second set of clarifying interpretations.

CACM-1131
On Context and Ambiguity in Parsing*.

CACM-0064
Remarks on ALGOL and Symbol Manipulation.

CACM-2774
Remark on Algorithm 475.

CACM-1105
On Introducing Digital Computing.

CACM-0119
Note on Eigenvalue Computation.

CACM-1786
An Improved Hash Code for Scatter Storage Introduced is a hash coding method based on fixed-point division rather than multiplication or logical operations. ... Also a new method of handling collisions is discussed.

CACM-2950
For time-invariant algorithms, the dependence of processing rates on priorities is derived. ... A criterion for the implementation efficiency of an algorithm is developed and results in the definition of time-invariant algorithms, which include most of the commonly implemented ones.

CACM-2454
Expressions for various marginal distributions are also derived. ... Computational Algorithms for Closed Queueing Networks with Exponential Servers Methods are presented for computing the equilibrium distribution of customers in closed queueing networks with exponential servers.

CACM-1905
The implementation appears as. ... These implementations have bad round-off error properties.

CACM-1548
Parsing of Decision Tables Reduction in the size of decision tables can be accomplished by several techniques. ... Such parsing rests upon some conventions for the linkage of decision tables.

CACM-2435
A Class of Dynamic Memory Allocation Algorithms Anew dynamic memory allocation algorithm, the Fibonacci system, is introduced. ... This algorithm is similar to, but seems to have certain advantages over, the "buddy" system.

CACM-0272
The administrative routines controlling the storage at run time are described in full. ... A Storage Allocation Scheme for ALGOL 60 A storage allocation scheme for a machine with a 2048 instruction core store and a magnetic drum is described.

CACM-1314
During the construction of the Virginia ALGOL 60 compiler for the Burroughs B205, the primary consideration in the symbol table design was that the recognition of identifiers and reserved words should be as rapid as possible. ... The Organization of Symbol Tables An efficient symbol table organization is an important feature in the design of any compiler.

CACM-0335
Some Numerical Experiments Using Newton's Method for Nonlinear Parabolic and EllipticBoundary-Value Problems Using a generalization of Newton's method, a nonlinear parabolic equation of the form U(t)-U(xx)=g(U) and a nonlinear elliptic equation U(xx)+U(yy)=exp(U) are solved numerically Comparison of these results with results obtained using the Picard iteration procedure show that in many cases the quisi linearization method offers substantial advantages in both time and accuracy.

CACM-3026
Beginning with the 1107 in 1962, the 1100 series has progressed through a succession of eight compatible computer models to the latest system, the 1100/80, introduced in 1977. ... The 1100 series hardware architecture is based on a 36-bit word, ones complement structure which obtains one operand from storage and one from a high-speed register, or two operands from high-speed registers.

CACM-2433
The implications of these features for data layout and algorithm structure are discussed, and the conclusion is drawn that data allocation rather than code structuring is the crucial ILLIAC optimization problem. ... A satisfactory method of data allocation is then presented.

CACM-2079
On Multiprogramming, Machine Coding, and Computer Organization.

CACM-0077
On GAT and the Construction of Translators.

CACM-2757
More on kth Shortest Paths.

CACM-2736
A Note on Hash Linking.

CACM-2503
Another Comment on Computer Music.

CACM-2280
Comment on Deadlock Prevention Method.

CACM-2085
Comment on a Paging Anomaly.

CACM-1702
Mooers' Paper. ... Commentary on Mr.

CACM-1466
Discussion Summary on Graphical Languages.

CACM-1461
Discussion Summary on Operating Systems.

CACM-0556
On Translation of Boolean Expressions.

CACM-0269
Core Allocation Based on Probability.

CACM-0141
Some Thoughts on Parallel Processing.

CACM-0017
On Programming of Arithmetic Operations.

CACM-0854
In contrast, sorting in a random access-oriented system encourages the selection of the optimum order of merge from many possible orders. ... The latter problem is discussed in this paper, along with criteria developed for determining the optimum order of merge according to the various properties of random access storage devices.

CACM-2152
This paper discusses some of these problems, and suggests an alternative approach to display system design which avoids the use of structured display files. ... This technique employs display procedures to generate information for display.

CACM-2217
Experiments in Automatic Learning for a Multipurpose Heuristic Program An automatic learning capability has been developed and implemented for use with the MULTIPLE (MULTIpurpose Program that LEarns) heuristic tree-searching program, which is presently being applied to resolution theorem-proving in predicate calculus. ... MULTIPLE's proving program (PP) uses two evaluation functions to guide its search for a proof of whether or not a particular goal is achievable.

CACM-2069
Comments on a Paper by Wallace and Mason.

CACM-0008
On The Equivalence and Transformation of Program Schemes.

CACM-2967
The major problem areas of hardware associative memory technology, namely input/output and cost effectiveness, are also addressed. ... A Comparison of Hardware and Software Associative Memories in the Context of Computer Graphics The Associative Processing of Line Drawings (APLD) System utilizes a hardware associative memory and creates, modifies, deletes, stores, and retrieves two-dimensional line drawings consisting of poin ts, lines, rectangles, and triangles.

CACM-2524
Some empirical results are presented which compare the efficiency of the methods. ... Some Approaches to Best-Match File Searching The problem of searching the set of keys in a file to find a key which is closest to a given query key is discussed.

CACM-2293
Comment on Average Binary Search Length.

CACM-2024
Comments on a Paper by Lowe.

CACM-2023
A Note on Data Base Deadlocks.

CACM-2022
Note on an Anomaly in Paging.

CACM-1831
A Comment on Optimal Tree Structures.

CACM-1812
More on Fortran Random Number Generators.

CACM-1328
Further Remarks on Reducing Truncation Errors.

CACM-1207
Remarks on Simulation of Boolean Functions.

CACM-1036
Remark on Further Generalization of ALGOL.

CACM-0985
Report on SUBSET ALGOL 60 (IFIP).

CACM-0948
Note on the Use of Procedures.

CACM-0635
A Note on Multiplying Boolean Matrices.

CACM-0463
On Ambiguity in Phrase Structure Languages.

CACM-0364
On the Compilation of Subscripted Variables.

CACM-0296
A Note on Multiple Precision Arithmetic.

CACM-0163
Counting Ones on the IBM 7090.

CACM-0118
Character Scanning on the IBM 7070.

CACM-0109
A Note on Approximating e^x.

CACM-0051
On the Construction of Micro-Flowcharts.

CACM-0003
Techniques Department on Matrix Program Schemes.

CACM-1766
Quasilinearization and the Estimation of Differential Operators from Eigenvalues Given a linear ordinary differential operator containing several unknown constants and a number of its eigenvalues, the values of the unknown constants are estimated. ... The results of some computational experiments are given.

CACM-0679
This paper discusses recent improvements in the language in three areas: complex display, logical control, and subprogramming. ... ".

CACM-1112
A Technique for Computer Detection and Correction of Spelling Errors* The method described assumes that a word which cannot be found in a dictionary has at most one error, which might be a wrong, missing or extra letter or a single transposition. ... The unidentified input word is compared to the dictionary again, testing each time to see if the words match-assuming one of these errors occurred.

CACM-1420
This generator passes the usual statistical tests and in addition the least significant bits appear to be as random as the most significant bits-a property which generators having modulus 2^k do not possess. ... A New Uniform Pseudorandom Number Generator A new multiplicative congruential pseudorandom number generator is discussed, in which the modulus is the largest prime within accumulator capacity and the multiplier is a primitive root of that prime.

CACM-2450
Although the words "working set" are now commonly encountered in the literature dealing with resource allocation, there is a dearth of published data on program measurements, in the hope that workers in the field might find experimental evidence upon which to substantiate and base theoretical work. ... Empirical Working Set Behavior The working set model for program behavior has been proposed in recent years as a basis for the design of scheduling and paging algorithms.

CACM-3063
A Note on Virtual Memory Indexes None.

CACM-2908
A Note On Reflection-Free Permutation Enumeration.

CACM-2659
Some Remarks on Lookup of Structured Variables.

CACM-2360
A Comment on the Double-Chained Tree.

CACM-2352
Minimax Nonlinear Approximation by Approximation on Subsets.

CACM-2257
A Note on Optimal Doubly-Chained Trees.

CACM-2159
A Note on Best One-Sided Approximations.

CACM-2021
A Comment on Axiomatic Approaches to Programming.

CACM-1151
A Note on Multiplying Boolean Matrices II.

CACM-1005
Coordinates on an Ellipsoid (Algorithm 240 [Z]).

CACM-0818
Realizing Boolean Connectives on The IBM 1620.

CACM-0806
Remark on Certification of Matrix Inversion Procedures.

CACM-0692
On the Inverse of a Test Matrix.

CACM-0584
Report on the Algorithmic Language FORTRAN II.

CACM-0581
A Note on Sampling a Tape-File.

CACM-0363
On Approximating Transcendental Numbers by Continued Fractions.

CACM-0361
Programmed Error Correction on a Decimal Computer.

CACM-0312
A Further Note on Approximating e^x.

CACM-0142
Comments on a Technique for Counting Ones.

CACM-0136
A Note on the Calculation of Interest.

CACM-0044
RUNCIBLE-Algebraic Translation on a Limited Computer.

CACM-1476
" This effort is primarily directed toward systems employing the American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII). ... 3 of the American Standards Association, has charged one of its task groups, X3.

CACM-1026
Of particular interest is the fact that the method produces at each step a set of precisely three estimates for the desired result, one of which is exact. ... A basic divide-and-correct method for multiple precision division is formulated and its known properties briefly reviewed.

CACM-1657
Implementation of the SHARER2 Time-Sharing System A simple mechanism is described for the execution of part of a program with its own memory protection. ... An improved version of the SHARER time-sharing system using this feature is described.

CACM-3159
Further Remark on Stably Updating Mean and Standard Deviation Estimates.

CACM-2731
Remark on Stably Updating Mean and Standard Deviation of Data.

CACM-2671
A Note on a Combinatorial Problem of Burnett and Coffman.

CACM-3029
Foreword to the Special Issue on Computer Architecture.

CACM-2975
Remark on Uniform Insertion in Structured Data Structures.

CACM-2292
A Note on the Generation of Rosary Permutations.

CACM-1330
Automated Plotting Flow-Charts on a Small Computer.

CACM-1187
Note on an ASCII-Octal Code Table (Standards).

CACM-0826
Remarks on Fortran Subroutines for Time Series Analysis.

CACM-0821
Further Remarks on Sampling a Tape File-III.

CACM-0476
Further Remarks on Sampling a Tape File-II.

CACM-0170
Some Thoughts on Reconciling Various Character Set Proposals.

CACM-0041
Some Notes on Computer Research in Eastern Europe.

CACM-0027
Note On Empirical Bounds For Generating Bessel Functions.

CACM-2203
Finally, a proposal for further quantitative fundamental study is outlined. ... Key-to-Address Transform Techniques: A Fundamental Performance Study on Large Existing Formatted Files The results of a study of eight different key-to-address transformation methods applied to a set of existing files are presented.

CACM-3187
Certification of Algorithm 271 (QUICKERSORT)   QUICKERSORT compiled and run without correction through the ALDEP translator for the CDC 1604A. ... Comparison of average sorting items with other recently published algorithms demonstrates QUICKERSORT's superior performance.

CACM-2713
Remark on Stably Updating Mean and Standard Deviation of Data (Corrigendum).

CACM-0097
Signal Corps Research and Development on Automatic Programming of Digital Computers.

CACM-1884
An Anomaly in Space-Time Characteristics of Certain Programs Running in a Paging Machine The running time of programs in a paging machine generally increases as the store in which programs are constrained to run decreases. ... Experiments, however, have revealed cases in which the reverse is true: a decrease in the size of the store is accompanied by a decrease in running time.

CACM-3156
Simultaneous access to the same location is permitted for fetch instructions but not for store instructions. ... An O(log2n) time bound also can be achieved using only n$n/$log2n)) processors.

CACM-3097
The bits iin the shift registers are numbered 0 to N - 1, and blocks of N bits are always transferred, always starting at bit 0. ... This is called the "hurry up and wait" strategy and is well known outside the computer field.

CACM-2974
Comment on Weighted Increment Linear Search for Scatter Tables.

CACM-2587
On the Construction of a Representative Synthetic Workload (Errata).

CACM-2295
Comment on the Composition of Semantics in Algol 68.

CACM-1964
Comment on the Working Set Model for Program Behavior.

CACM-1755
Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Operating system Principles.

CACM-1338
Additional Comments on a Problem in Concurrent Progamming Control.

CACM-0984
Report on Input-Output Procedures for ALGOL 60 (IFIP).

CACM-0762
Some Remarks on the Syntax of Symbolic Programming Languages.

CACM-0629
On a Wired-In Binary-to-Decimal Conversion Scheme.

CACM-0601
Interim Report on Bureau of Ships COBOL Evaluation Program.

CACM-0532
On the Computation of Rational Approximations to Continuous Functions.

CACM-0297
A Note on Fitting Great Circles by Least Squares.

CACM-0147
Report on a Conference of University Computing Center Directors.

CACM-0138
Some Thoughts on Reconciling Various Character Set Proposals (Corrigenda).

CACM-0105
Two Methods for Word Inversion on the IBM 709.

CACM-2801
In over half of the cases the compressed code results from the conventional BCD code by simple removal of redundant 0 bits. ... 34 percent.

CACM-2518
It is proposed that programming by questionnairies a useful compromise between general and special purpose programming for a significant class of large scale problems. ... Programming by Questionnaire: An Effective Way To Use Decision Tables Programming by questionnaire combines aspects of decision table programming and general purpose programming by using decision tables to construct an application program through the selection of certain source statements from a predefined file.

CACM-2890
On Quadratic Adaptive Routing Algorithms Two analytic models of a store-and-forward communications network are constructed, one to find the optimal message routing and the other to illustrate the equilibrium (stationary state) maintained by an adaptive routing algorithm. ... These models show that adaptive routing does not satisfy the necessary conditions for an optimal routing, Adaptive routing tends to overuse the direct path and underuse alternate routes because it does not consider the impact of its current routing decision on the future state of the network.

CACM-2543
Reducing the Retrieval Time of Scatter Storage Techniques A new method for entering and retrieving information in a hash table is described. ... The method is intended to be efficient if most entries are looked up several times.

CACM-3085
The order in which the matrices are computed affects the number of operations. ... In most cases, the algorithm yields the optimal order or an order which takes only a few percent longer than Topt (less than 1 percent on the average).

CACM-2270
Interpolation and Smooth Curve Fitting Based on Local Procedures [E2] (Algorithm A433).

CACM-1096
On Avoiding Matrix Reversals Between 7090 FORTRAN II and 7090 FORTRAN IV.

CACM-0400
Comments on the Implementation of Recursive Procedures and Blocks in ALGOL 60.

CACM-2610
Assuming R is starlike with respect to (x*,y*), we discuss a method for computing Gauss harmonic interpolation formulas for R and the point (x*,y*). ... Such formulas approximate a harmonic function at (x*,y*) in terms of a linear combination of its values at certain selected points on the boundary of R.

CACM-1635
Parameters for Pseudo Runge-Kutta Methods The object of this note is to present a choice of the free parameters in the third- and fourth-order pseudo Runge-Kutta methods involving two points. ... This choice of parameters causes a bound on the principal part of the truncation error term to be near the minimum for the fourth-order method and at the minimum for the third-order method.

CACM-0371
Remarks on Algorithms 2 and 3, Algorithm 15 and Algorithms 25 and 26.

CACM-2934
Comment on Computing the k Shortest Paths in a Graph.

CACM-2758
A Note on the LU Factorization of a Symmetric Matrix.

CACM-2577
An On-Site Data Management System Application in Field Archaeology.

CACM-2502
A Comment on the Practical Aspects of Computer Science Education.

CACM-2221
Comment on the Conversion of Decision Tables to Computer Programs.

CACM-1991
On the Number of Automorphisms of a Singly Generated Automaton.

CACM-0751
A Note on a Set of Test Matrices for Inversion.

CACM-0690
USA Participation in an International Standard glossary on Information Processing.

CACM-0676
On the Computation of a Certain Type of IncompleteBeta Functions.

CACM-0383
On Finding Minimum Routes in a Network With Turn Penalties.

CACM-0343
On Frequently Occurring Errors in ALGOL 60 Programs (Algorithm 25).

CACM-1591
Exercises in simulation and gaming could also be provided. ... Because the teaching system automatically terminated and rescheduled itself, a student studying a course presented at a cathode-ray display terminal could switch readily between student mode and programmer mode.

CACM-1694
The problem is that of evaluating the sums of the products of all possible combinations of n variables in minimum time and storage space. ... An Algorithm for the Probability of the Union of a Large Number of Events An algorithm is presented which efficiently evaluates the probability for the union of n independent and not mutually exclusive events.

CACM-1236
The system is characterized by the fact that several hundred different methods are available to analyze documents and search requests. ... This feature is used in the retrieval process by leaving the exact sequence of operations initially unspecified, and adapting the search strategy to the needs of individual users.

CACM-2693
Bivariate Interpolation and Smooth Surface Fitting Based on Local Procedures [E2] (Algorithm A474).

CACM-0023
Binary and Truth-Function Operations on a Decimal Computer with an Extract Command.

CACM-2647
More on Algorithms that Reveal Properties of Floating Point Arithmetic Units.

CACM-2617
A Note on Subexpression Ordering in the Evaluation of Arithmetic Expressions.

CACM-2084
A Note on the Complement of Inherently Ambiguous Context-Free Languages.

CACM-0954
A Note on the Calculation of Probabilities in an F-Distribution.

CACM-0842
A Posteriori Bounds on a Zero of a Polynomial (Algorithm 174).

CACM-0628
On a Floating-Point Number Representation For Use with Algorithmic Languages.

CACM-0439
On-Line Digital Computer for Measurement of a Neurological Control System.

CACM-0317
On The Approximation of Curves by Line Segments Using Dynamic Programming.

CACM-0216
A Note on the Use of the Abacus in Number Conversion.

CACM-0196
Backus, J. ... Report on the Algorithmic Language ALGOL 60 Naur, P.

CACM-3095
A Selective Traversal Algorithm for Binary Search Trees The problem of selecting data items from a binary search tree according to a <B>list</B> of range conditions is considered. ... Presented in this paper is an algorithm for selective traversal which uses a tag field for each node in the tree.

CACM-1109
Conversion of a Power to a Series of Chebyshev Polynomials* Even slowly convergent power series can be rearranged as series in Chebyshev polynomials if appropriate sequence transformations are used in evaluating the coefficients. ... The method is illustrated by computing the coefficients for the expansion of the logarithm and dilogarithm.

CACM-2848
Synthesis of Decision Rules Decision tables can be used as an effective tool during an interview to record the logic of processes to be automated. ... The purpose of this paper is to provide a procedure for synthesizing the decision rules and thus provide an aid in developing a structure of complete decision tables.

CACM-0281
In this note we produce a particular family of very fast, high precision and eminently practical exponential evaluation formulas derived from one such formulation. ... Putting a Hex on e^x Recent notes on approximate natural antilogy have not considered indirect formulations for describing e^x.

CACM-2980
Such regions have been eliminated either on the basis of semantic information or on the basis of size and contrast. ... The Editing of Picture Segmentations Using Local Analysis of Graphs A major problem in picture processing is the elimination of the large number of spurious regions that result from an initial segmentation by region growing techniques.

CACM-2187
An approach to curriculum planning in computer science is presented which is guided by the structure of the field, by the fact that change is an important feature of the situation, and by the expectation that computer science will continue to increase its working contacts with other disciplines. ... This structure is presented in terms of the kinds of knowledge, problems, and activities that exist within the discipline, as well as the relations between them.

CACM-1892
The model preserves, as a key feature, the property of page-demand statistics which implies a "burst" of page demands at the beginning of any job or quantum execution. ... The model, a Markov chain, is analyzed numerically and the results are presented graphically for a wide range of key environment-descriptive parameters.

CACM-1891
The resulting video maps are stored on separate refresh bands of the rotating memory. ... Three-Dimensional Computer Display A stereographic display terminal has been produced using the raster display (BRAD) recently developed at Brookhaven.

CACM-2948
The overall system design is presented along with the algorithms used to solve three specific problems: local echoing, error detection and correction on the telephone lines, and multiplexing of character output. ... The system consists of a communications computer directly connected to the time-shared system, a number of small remote computers to which the terminals are attached, and connecting medium speed telephone lines.

CACM-1642
"Small" is taken to mean that only one user program plus a monitor will fit into the memory at any time. ... Time Sharing on a Computer with a Small Memory Techniques to make time sharing attractive on a computer with a small central memory are presented.

CACM-1570
One of the techniques, single-word linked blocks, is used in an example demonstrating an implementation of a SNOBOL string processing language on an IBM System/360. ... Speed of operation, storage requirements, effect on paging, and programmer convenience are also considered.

CACM-3015
In this paper, it is shown that, for a consistent system of linear inequalities, any sequence of relaxarion parameters lying strictly between 0 and 2 generates a sequence of vectors which converges to a solution. ... The size and the sparsity of the resulting system (typically, 25,000 inequalities with fewer than 1 percent of the coefficients nonzero) makes methods using successive relaxations computationally attractive, as compared to other ways of solving systems of inequalities.

CACM-2620
This paper introduces the idea on enciphering time coefficient the ratio of enciphering time to the time taken to fetch and store data without encipherment. ... Timing rates for assembly language encipherment ranged from 498,800 characters per second for a pseudo random key cipher to 2,092,000 characters per second for a constant one-word key cipher.

CACM-3161
An ACM Executive Committee Position on the Crisis in Experimental Computer Science.

CACM-0122
Least Squares Fitting of a Great Circle Through Points on a Sphere.

CACM-2985
Development and main tenance of computer-based systems is asserted to be a category of organizational change. ... Evidence is provided that the relationship conforms to a general pattern that would be expected from the hypothesis of the four stages of EDP growth [15].

CACM-2274
The grammar used by the system is in the form of a network that imposes an ordering on a set of syntactic transformations that are expressed as LISP functions. ... The system is programmed in LISP 1.

CACM-1712
Recovery of Disk Contents After System Failure A method is discussed by which, after a system malfunction, the contents of disk files can be restored to their status at the time of the failure.

CACM-2623
The techniques involve special handling of leading and trailing blanks, and the encoding of other symbols in groups of fixed size as unique fixed point numbers. ... The efficiency of the system is considered and pertinent statistics are given and compared with statistics for other information coding techniques.

CACM-1179
Language compatibility has been maintained so that programs may be debugged in the PUFFT system and then recompiled and run in the IBJOB-IBFTC system supplied by the manufacturer. ... In little more than half of the 32k word core memory PUFFT provides a monitor for job sequencing, a translator for the full FORTRAN IV language, the FORTRAN subroutine library, an input--output system for use at compile time and at execute time, and a rather elaborate diagnostic message writing routine.

CACM-3169
". ... Note on "An Optimal Evaluation of Boolean Expressions in an Online Query System.

CACM-3168
". ... Comment on "An Optimal Evaluation of Boolean Expressions in an Online Query System.

CACM-3126
Comments on Perfect Hashing Functions: A Single Probe Retrieving Method for Static Sets.

CACM-2552
A Note on When To Chain Overflow Items Within a Direct-Access Table.

CACM-1921
An Algol Convolution Procedure Based on the Fast Fourier Transform (Algorithm 345 [C6]).

CACM-1837
An Algol Convolution Procedure Based on the Fast Fourier Transform (Algorithm 345 [C6]).

CACM-1017
Comments on Bit-Sequencing of the ASCII in Serial-by-Bit Data Transmission.

CACM-0403
Thunks -- A Way of Compiling Procedure Statements with Some Comments on Procedure Declarations.

CACM-0721
Report on Proposed American Standard Flowchart Symbols for Information Processing This paper presents the essential contents of the Proposed American Standard Flowchart Symbols for Information Processing. ... 6 on Problem Description and Analysis of the American Standards Association (ASA).

CACM-1253
The QUIKSCRIPT language, its internal implementation, and major differences between QUIKSCRIPT and SIMSCRIPT are presented. ... A brief description of SIMSCRIPT is included, as is a sufficient description of 20-GATE to render this material understandable to the reader familiar with algebraic languages.

CACM-2569
There is no simple method for generating gamma random variates with non-integral shape parameters. ... This paper presents a rejection method for exactly generating gamma random variables when a is greater than 1.

CACM-3104
In addition to simplifying the process of proving correctness, this method simplifies the process of providing accurate specification for a program. ... The applicability of this technique to procedures and recursive programs is demonstrated.

CACM-0242
Notes on Geometric Weighted Check Digit Verification This note describes a method for utilizing geometric weight modulus 11 checking digits on a computer which does not have either multiplication or division. ... In addition some attempt has been made to show some limitations of this system.

CACM-2426
Algorithms SCALE1, SCALE2, and SCALE3 for Determination of Scales on Computer Generated Plots [J6] (Algorithm A463).

CACM-3120
A technique is presented here which uses instead control structures, namely events and processes. ... Three examples from that implementation are described and discussed here.

CACM-1699
Experimental Evaluation of Information Retrieval Through a Teletypewriter Experiments designed to evaluate the capabilities of mechanized information retrieval systems, with emphasis on interactive (man-machine) language and on some of the mechanical and psychological limitations in their design, were conducted at the Moore School information Systems Laboratory. ... Factors involved in evaluation of such a system include ease of use, learning time, and effectiveness of actual retrieval.

CACM-0080
A Technique for Computing Critical Rotational Speeds of Flexible Shafts on an Automatic Computer.

CACM-0248
This note consists solely of the impressions garnered by the moderator of the panel and does not necessarily represent the position of any of the panelists or other participants in the discussion. ... What is Proprietary In Mathematical Programming?-Impressions of a Panel Discussion A panel discussion on "What is Proprietary in Mathematical Programming?" was sponsored by the Special Interest Committee on Mathematical Programming of the ACM during a Hall of Discussion/on September 7th at the 16th National ACM meeting in Los Angeles.

CACM-2482
This paper presents a method, based on the concept of the hierarchical operating system, for constructing appropriate mixtures and suggests appropriate subsystems for the most frequently occurring resource allocation problems. ... Mixed Solutions for the Deadlock Problem Mixtures of detection, avoidance, and prevention provide more effective and practical solutions to the deadlock problem than any one of these alone.

CACM-1332
Subroutine Assembly A description is given of an assembly system, which requires only one pass and does not maintain a table of information about the subroutine library.

CACM-2438
Applications of this technique to multitasking, coroutines, backtracking, label-valued variables, and functional arguments are discussed. ... This is straightforward to implement by dynamic storage allocation with linked blocks for each activation, but rather expensive in both time and space.

CACM-1341
In this essay some of these questions are posed, and the general attitude we must take in pursuing the problem further is discussed. ... The continued use of such a structure raises questions about its effects on the usefulness of future systems, particularly with regard to such trends as time sharing, parallel programming, and, eventually, systems which learn.

CACM-1249
Recorded Magnetic Tape for Information Interchange (200 CPI, NRZI) (On the Revised Proposed American Standard).

CACM-0987
FORTRAN vs. ... Basic FORTRAN (A Programming Language for Information Processing on Automatic Data Processing Systems).

CACM-1726
Preliminary Investigation of Techniques for Automated Reading of Unformatted Text Methods for converting unstructured printed material into computer code are experimentally investigated. ... Here, the textual portions of the page are located during a rapid prescan by a rudimentary form of frequency analysis.

CACM-1183
The procedure is based on a straight-forward use of FORMAT statements for generating machine-written programs. ... A Note on the Use of a Digital Computer for Doing Tedious Algebra and Programming A special purpose compiler was written with FORTRAN II language and made possible the writing of very long programs by the computer.

CACM-3154
Algorithm = Logic + Control An algorithm can be regarded as consisting of a logic component, which specifies the knowledge to be used in solving problems, and a control component, which determines the problem-solving strategies by means of which that knowledge is used. ... The logic component determines the meaning of the algorithm whereas the control component only affects its efficiency.

CACM-1889
Lessons include the importance of a separate organization representing the small colleges, the necessity for on-campus training for the institutions, the need for some special programming and documentation to support such users,and the development of curriculum by evolutionary means. ... Access, however, is not enough-effective organizational and educational methodology for introducing computing at such institutions must also be developed.

CACM-3197
ACM 5 (Nov. ... Structures of Standards-Processing Organizations in the Computer Area   In line with the ACM's policy statement [Comm.

CACM-2398
NEWBASIC/CATALYSTincorporates an advanced implementation of BASIC, system-level interactive features, and a general capability for extension through user oriented function attachment, Application of this last feature to provide a flexible CAI scan capability is illustrated. ... Preliminary experience with the system in an urban secondary school setting is discussed.

CACM-1646
Attention is given to the design and implementation of DITRAN and the particular techniques employed to provide the diagnostic features. ... Special features which provide teaching aids for use by instructors are noted.

CACM-2691
Comments on the Algorithms of Verhelst for the Conversion of Limited-Entry Decision Tables to Flowcharts.

CACM-2495
Adapting Optimal Code Generation for Arithmetic Expressions to the Instruction Sets Available on Present-Day Computers.

CACM-0986
Proposed Amendment to Proposed American Standard on Specification for General-Purpose Paper Cards for Information Processing.

CACM-0897
Note on the Proof of the Non-existence of a Phrase Structure Grammar for ALGOL 60.

CACM-0088
An Efficient Method for Generating Uniformly Distributed Points on the Surface of an n-Dimensional Sphere.

CACM-2326
Fix point Approach to the Theory of Computation  Following the fix point theory of Scott, the semantics of computer programs are defined in terms of the least fix points of recursive programs. ... This allows not only the justification of all existing verification techniques, but also their extension to the handling, in a uniform manner of various properties of computer programs, including correctness, termination, and equivalence.

CACM-1033
The system also permits simple specification of test and argument arrays in single statements. ... These include numeric, Boolean, relational and selection operators on operands which can be entire arrays.

CACM-2619
The preconditions correspond to the unavailability constraints and preassigned meetings in the class-teacher timetable problem. ... Graph Coloring Conditions for the Existence of Solutions to the Timetable Problem A necessary and sufficient condition is presented for the existence of a solution to the Gotlieb class-teacher timetable problem.

CACM-2000
A Variation of the Goodman-Lance Method for the Solution of Two-Point Boundary Value Problems A recently published method for the interpolative solution of nonlinear equations is improved, and applied to give a significant variation of the Goodman-Lance method for the solution of two-point boundary value problems. ... The resulting method applies in particular to the numerical solution of optimal control problems in the Euler-Lagrange formulation.

CACM-2091
A convenient, easy to learn and to use, high level problem oriented language to solve and study partial differential equation problems has been designed; a practical translator for the language has also been designed, and a working version of it has been constructed for a significant portion of the language. ... PDEL-A Language for Partial Differential Equations Conventional computer methods available to solve continuous system problems characterized by partial differential equations are very time-consuming and cumbersome.

CACM-2586
Adapting Optimal Code Generation for Arithmetic Expressions to the Instruction Sets Available on Present-Day Computers (Errata).

CACM-0946
2. ... Suggestions on ALGOL 60 (ROME) Issues - A Report by the American Standards Association Subcommittee X3.

CACM-3017
Here, three potential problems which must be dealt with in such a structure that do not arise in more traditional static directory structures are indicated. ... B-trees Re-examined The B-tree and its variants have, with increasing frequency, been proposed as a basic storage structure for multiuser database applications.

CACM-2721
In addition, the study demonstrates the usefulness of digital simulations in the examinations of certain aquatic ecosystems, as well as in environmental planning involving such examinations. ... In order to study the relationships between the ecological mechanisms involved, the simulation parameters were varied illustrating the response of the ecosystem to different conditions, including those corresponding to certain types of chemical and thermal pollution.

CACM-1380
SIMULA-an ALGOL-Based Simulation Language This paper is an introduction to SIMULA, a programming language designed to provide a systems analyst with unified concepts which facilitate the concise description of discrete event systems. ... SIMULA is an extension of ALGOL 60 in which the most important new concepts is that of quasi-parallel processing.

CACM-1523
It uses a simple scheme for system extension for a machine with only one relocation and memory bound register. ... SHARER, a Time Sharing System for the CDC 6600 A time sharing system embedded within the standard batch processing system for the CDC 6600 is described.

CACM-2516
The data storage hardware is assumed to consist on n-levels of linearly connected memory hardware with increasing data access times and increasing data storage capabilities. ... A system might, for example, consist of fast semiconductor memory, computer core memory, extended core storage, disk memory, and data cells.

CACM-0981
The particular procedure that is appropriate depends upon whether the numbers being accumulated can vary in sign, whether their sum can vary in sign, and whether the last number being summed can be recognized as such prior to its rounding. ... Rounding Problems in Commercial Data Processing A common requirement in commercial data processing is that the sum of a set of numbers, rounded in a generally understood manner, be equal to the sum of the numbers rounded individually.

CACM-2631
A novel method is presented, which maps the hyperbolic frequency distribution. ... This is more suited to implementation on storage devices.

CACM-1171
Under these conditions the primal-dual method shows a statistically significant superiority on randomly generated problems. ... It has also been found, via a regression analysis, that the relevant parameters in determining the difference in the number of iterations between the algorithms is not only the number of constraints and the number of variables but also the ratio of the latter to the former.

CACM-2236
Remarks on Characteristic Values and Associated Solutions of Mathieus Differential Equation, Exponential Integral, and Systems of Hyperbolic P. ... (Algorithms R352, R385, R392).

CACM-1888
Requiring the differential equation to be satisfied at the mesh points results in a set of difference equations, which are block tridiagonal and so are easily solved by relaxation or other standard methods. ... For uniform mesh size h, the error in the quintic spline y(x) is O(h^4), with typical error one-third that from Numerov's method.

CACM-3198
Microprogramming, Emulators and Programming Languages  The problem we have been concerned with is that of converting language to action - or intellectual energy to mechanical energy. ... In the areas of language investigation we have concentrated first on formalizing syntax and then on semantics.

CACM-3171
Line Numbers Made Cheap A technique is described for run-time line number administration to be used for implementations of high level languages. ... Under suitable circumstances, this method requires absolutely no overhead, in either time or space, during execution of the program.

CACM-1044
The method is specifically designed to cope with a nested library structure. ... An Automatic Loader for Subroutine Nests A method for automatic loading of library subroutines, which can be adapted to operate in conjunction with any conventional two-pass assembler is described.

CACM-1753
MULTICS concepts of processes, address space, and virtual memory are defined and the use of paging and segmentation is explained. ... Virtual Memory, Processes, and Sharing in MULTICS Some basic concepts involved in the design of the MULTICS operating system are introduced.

CACM-1605
Influences external to the systems, such as the sequence of problem solution, and programmer and problem characteristics, were specified as design factors in the experiment. ... An Experimental Comparison of Time Sharing and Batch Processing The effectiveness for program development of the MIT Compatible Time-Sharing System (CTSS) was compared with that of the IBM IBSYS batch-processing system by means of a statistically designed experiment.

CACM-3022
Analysis of the data indicated that the over-all verdict is one of general equality among women, minorities, and men. ... Computer Science Faculties: The Current Status of Minorities and Women The results of a survey conducted in the fall of 1975 to determine the status of women and minority faculty members in academic computer science are presented.

CACM-2181
Three topics were covered: curricula for the general manager; computer-related material in required and functional courses; and curricula for students concentrating on computer-based information systems. ... The State of Computer Oriented Curricula in Business Schools 1970 The ACM Committee on Computer Education for Management, supported by a National Science Foundation Grant, is established to appraise the state of the art and to develop a series of recommendations for improving computer education for management.

CACM-2338
A Starting Method for Solving Nonlinear Volterra Integral Equations of the Second Kind A fourth-order starting method is given for Volterra integral equations of the second kind and numerical examples are presented.

CACM-0222
A case in point is presented. ... Coding Isomorphisms The coding of external symbols into symbols internal to a compute can sometimes be carried out in such a way that relevant informational properties are preserved, but in a form much more easily dealt with.

CACM-0243
Only three-dimensional codes are discussed in this paper with parity evaluations along the horizontal, the vertical, and one main diagonal. ... The processes of encoding and error detection are based upon parity evaluations along prescribed dimensions of the array.

CACM-1427
Past and present research using the output of the simulator has shown the flexibility of the system to be important. ... To study the output of scanners with various characteristics, a program which simulates radioisotope scans has been written for a PDP-1 computer with auxiliary disk storage and cathode ray tube display.

CACM-2298
An Environment for Research in Microprogramming and Emulation The development of the research project in microprogramming and emulation at State University of New York at Buffalo consisted of three phases: the evaluation of various possible machines to support this research; the decision to purchase one such machine, which appears to be superior to the others considered; and the organization and definition of goals for each group in the project. ... Each of these phases is reported, with emphasis placed on the early results achieved in this research.

CACM-2197
The Merit of Regional Computing Networks One of the suggested means for stimulating the spread of computing capabilities in institutions of higher learning is through the construction of regional computing networks. ... Both the quality and variety of services provided by the central facility were found to play a key role in the effectiveness of the network.

CACM-2972
The proofs, like the programs, are structured by levels. ... The method formally represents a program in terms of levels of abstraction, each level of which can be described by a self-contained nonprocedural specification.

CACM-1487
Responses are generated by reassembly rules associated with selected decomposition rules. ... ELIZA-A Computer Program For the Study ofNatural Language Communication Between Man And Machine ELIZA is a program operating within the MAC time-sharing system at MIT which makes certain kinds of natural language conversation between man and computer possible.

CACM-1678
Computer Science Program A number of courses are listed in the area describe as automata, formal languages, abstract switching, and computability, that might be available to a Ph. ... student in computer science.

CACM-2519
On the Problem of Communicating Complex Information The nature of the difficulty involved in communicating mathematical results between scientists using a computer based information retrieval system is examined. ... These include ways of augmenting written natural language by various notational and linguistic devices, the exhibition of the structure inherent in the information we are communicating, and a sophisticated interactive system controlled by computer.

CACM-0605
Changes in the model can be made to observe their consequences and to determine the ability of a real street to carry loads expected in the future. ... Computer Simulation Of City Traffic In simulating traffic flow on city streets, the National Bureau of Standards has used data processing techniques to tabulate and make motion pictures of vehicle movements in the model.

CACM-2306
A number of old Babylonian tablets, many of which have never before been translated into English, are quoted. ... Ancient Babylonian Algorithms The early origins of mathematics are discussed, emphasizing those aspects which seem to be of greatest interest from the standpoint of computer science.

CACM-1295
The time information for an activity is carried with its link. ... PERT Time Calculations Without Topological Ordering A simplified technique is presented for PERT Time calculations without topological ordering.

CACM-1930
The literature on random number generators does not seem to contain an algorithm that meets requirements of this sort. ... While the small modulus which must be used to maintain portability prevents the quality of the generator from being high, the generator compares well with the bounds established in the above mentioned paper.

CACM-0585
The material that follows is a description of the evolution of the programming and hardware system which has developed into the present multiprogramming system at Lewis research Center. ... Some educationally valuable mistakes were made, and their suggested cures often pointed the way to useful future improvements or emphasized some of the basic principles of a multiprogramming system.

CACM-2852
This paper is a report on a course entitled, "The Technology of Computer Center Management," which has been offered at Purdue for the past four years. ... The Technology of Computer Center Management: A Proposed Course for Graduate Professional Programs in Computer Science or in Information Systems McFarlan and Nolan have made a strong case for adding a course on information systems administration to the 13 courses proposed by the ACM Curriculum Committee on Computer Education for Management for Graduate Professional Programs in Information Systems.

CACM-0303
Some Basic Terminology Connected With Mechanical Languages and Their Processors The suggestions in this paper are part of the terminology used in work for the University of Pennsylvania's Office of computer Research and Education. ... The work is jointly supported by the National Science Foundation and the Air Force Office of Scientific Research.

CACM-2717
Its design is based on the simple underlying concept of a form which enables the users to visualize the translation processes, and thus makes data translation a much simpler task. ... "CONVERT" has been chosen for conveying the purpose of the language and should not be confused with any other language or program bearing the same name.

CACM-1925
Concepts of Use in Contour Map Processing Generalized techniques whose use can simplify the solution of problems relating to contour maps. ... Both of these techniques have been applied to the problem of locating the ground track of an aircraft from elevation readings obtained during a flight.

CACM-2254
Various modes of partitioning are defined for different types of arrays, so that subarrays may vary over the original array in a nearly arbitrary manner. ... These definitions are motivated with several realistic examples to illustrate the value of partitioning for array languages.

CACM-2829
The parameterization of a patch defines a coordinate system which is used as a key for mapping patterns onto the surface. ... The patch rendering algorithm allows accurate computation of the surface normal to the patch at each picture element, permitting the simulation of the mirror reflections.

CACM-2699
This paper describes the structure of an optimizer for this language. ... Among other methods of interest, the optimizer uses techniques which allow relations of inclusion and membership to be established, the domains and ranges of (tabulated) mappings to be estimated from above and below, and the single-valuedness of (tabulated) mappings to be proved.

CACM-1086
A Proposal for Input-Output Conventions in ALGOL 60-A Report of the Subcommittee on ALGOL of the ACM Programming Language Committee.

CACM-2681
An expression is derived for the maximum interference that a repacking process may introduce before the original performance of the system is degraded. ... Alternative approaches to repacking are discussed, and the operating conditions that lead to improved system throughput through repacking are delineated.

CACM-2209
Results from the first term's implementation are presented. ... A Scheduling Algorithm for a Computer Assisted Registration System This paper presents the scheduling algorithm used in the Computer Assisted Registration System at the University of Tennessee.

CACM-2141
Relationships are developed between compression alternatives to avoid comparing all of them. ... The technique has been used to compress data from forest resource maps, but is widely applicable to map and photographic data reduction.

CACM-2732
Guarded Commands, Nondeterminacy and Formal Derivation of Programs So-called "guarded commands" are introduced as a building block for alternative and repetitive constructs that allow nondeterministic program components for which at least the activity evoked, but possible even the final state, is not necessarily uniquely determined by the initial state. ... For the formal derivation of programs expressed in terms of these constructs, a calculus will be shown.

CACM-2751
Several shading techniques corresponding to different methods of object modeling and the related hidden surface algorithms are presented here. ... The shading algorithm itself depends in part on the method for modeling the object, which also determines the hidden surface algorithm.

CACM-1876
Generation of Test Matrices Having Certain Sign Patterns and Prescribed Positive Spectra A class of orthogonal transformations is presented whose members transform a given positive diagonal matrix into a matrix having one of four special sign patterns.

CACM-2881
A Counterintuitive Example of Computer Paging A counterexample is exhibited to a natural conjecture concerning the optimal way to group records into pages in the independent reference model of computer paging (an organization is said to be optimal if the "least recently used" miss ratio is minimized).

CACM-1859
The first (third) derivative of the periodic spline is shown to be a sixth (fourth) order approximation at the mesh points to the first (third) derivative of the function being interpolated. ... Error Bounds for Periodic Quintic Splines Explicit error bounds for periodic quintic spline interpolation are developed.

CACM-3055
The algorithm of Meyer is shown to have expected swap complexity 5/9N. ... Dijkstra starts with a simple program and arrives at an improved program by refinement.

CACM-2265
This paper attempts to isolate the notion of type checking and presents a partial solution to the type checking problem based on the notions of abstraction and application of functions. ... g.

CACM-2186
Numerical Properties of the Ritz-Trefftz Algorithm for Optimal Control In this paper the Ritz-Trefftz algorithm is applied to the computer solution of the state regulator problem. ... The new technique is shown to be significantly faster for comparable accuracy.

CACM-2754
Several parameters serve to identify the waveform context enabling accurate measurement of peak amplitude, duration, and shape. ... A Syntactic Algorithm for Peak Detection in Waveforms with Applications to Cardiography Peaks in a digitized waveform are detected by an algorithm incorporating piecewise linear approximation and tabular parsing techniques.

CACM-1410
The data obtained appear to justify satisfactorily the common assumption that the interarrival times are serially independent. ... The input process is assumed to be stationary, and to be defined by the interarrival time distribution.

CACM-3064
Event Manipulation for Discrete Simulations Requiring Large Numbers of Events The event-manipulation system presented here consists of two major parts. ... Additional features and problems dealt with include the proper handling of simultaneous events; that certain events must be created, scheduled, and executed at the same points in simulated time; that infinite loops caused by the concatenation of such "zero-time" events are possible and must be diagnosed; that maintaining various event counts is practical and economical; and that a capability for handling "time-displaceable" events is desirable and possible.

CACM-2921
RRP grammars describe the syntax of programming languages more concisely and more understandably than is possible with CF grammars. ... Formally, RRP grammars have production right parts, which are nondeterministic finite state machines (FSMs), and, as a special case, regular expressions, since these can be converted to FSMs.

CACM-1099
These qualifications should result in fewer debugging problems and make the blind a valuable addition to any systems group. ... Because of intense training in and constant experience with locating objects in the unseen environment and also because of superbly trained memory, the blind brings to the work of programming skills which the sighted has had little need to acquire.

CACM-2030
The algorithm is also compared with several previous parsers for context-sensitive grammars and general rewriting systems, and the difference between the two types of analyses is discussed. ... The algorithm appears to be complementary to an algorithm by S.

CACM-2387
Maximum Computing Power and Cost Factors in the Centralization Problem A simple analysis of some computer-economic factors involved in comparing multimachine installations versus large single machine installations is given, and a mathematical model is derived to assist policy decisions.

CACM-2337
A Sorting Problem and Its Complexity A technique for proving min-max norms of sorting algorithms is given. ... One new algorithm for finding the minimum and maximum elements of a set with fewest comparisons is proved optimal with this technique.

CACM-1397
-Robert W. ... Clapp, Daniel Bobrow and James H.

CACM-2932
Complexity of Computations The framework for research in the theory of complexity of computations is described, emphasizing the in terrelation between seemingly diverse problems and methods. ... Directions for new research are discussed.

CACM-2207
The objective of the criterion is to increase the step size so as to reduce solution time. ... An option permits the solution of "stiff" differential equations.

CACM-1441
Methods of Numerical Integration Applied to a System Having Trivial Function Evaluations A study has been made to determine which methods of numerical integration require the least computation time for a given amount of truncation error when applied to a particular system of ordinary differential equations where function evaluations are relatively trivial. ... Recent methods due to Butcher and Gear are compared with classic Runge-Kutta, Kutta-Nystrom and Adams methods.

CACM-3073
Their use is illustrated by sample solutions of a variety of familiar programming exercises. ... Communicating Sequential Processes This paper suggests that input and output are basic primitives of programming and that parallel composition of communicating sequential processes is a fundamental program structuring method.

CACM-3200
Sets of functions (in symbolic form) to be used in linear combinations to approximate the solution functions. ... For each problem, input to the program includes:  1.

CACM-1273
Remark on Romberg Quadrature A modified form of Romberg quadrature is described, which is less sensitive to the accumulation of rounding errors than the customary one.

CACM-1430
This paper shows that a single small table suffices for a floating-point conversion from decimal to binary, and vice versa, in any useful precision. ... Multiple Precision Floating-Point Conversion from Decimal-to-Binary and Vice Versa Decimal-to-binary and binary-to-decimal floating-point conversion is often performed by using a table of the powers 10^i, (ia positive integer) for converting from base 10 to base 2, and by using a table of the coefficient of a polynomial approximation of 10^x, (0<=x<1) for converting from base 2 to base 10.

CACM-1748
Finally, several methods for interlocking the execution of independent processes are presented and compared. ... A very general approach to priority-oriented scheduling is described, and its relationship to conventional interrupt systems is explained.

CACM-1009
Particular implementation results are presented and evaluated. ... Solution of Combinatorial Problems Using Generating Functions on a Variable-Field Computer The utility of generating functions in solving combinatorial problems is discussed.

CACM-1280
Variable flow rates are a common cause of these variable lags. ... Numerical Integration of a Differential-Difference Equation with a Decreasing Time-Lag Systems in which variable time-lags are present are of common occurrence in biology.

CACM-2572
Current proposals for community information utilities are examined in this framework, and the conclusion is drawn that society is not yet in a position to justify either the construction of an information utility in a prototype community or the acceptance of a policy in favor of its widespread implementation. ... Arguments for a Moratorium on the Construction of a Community Information Utility In this article the author urges a prudent and decentralized approach to the question of the design and desirability of computerized community information utilities.

CACM-2163
Preliminary conclusions are presented on the need for education in administrative information systems, and appropriate college curricula and courses are suggested. ... Also, the role of professional societies and organizations using computers is discussed, and the plans of the Committee are outlined.

CACM-2697
This fact is exploited to reduce the number of floating-point operations required to solve a linear system from 8n-7 to 5n+2k-3, where k is much less than n, the order of the matrix. ... Various generalizations of these results are discussed.

CACM-2153
Experiments with an Automated Instructional System for Numerical Methods A computer system was developed at Purdue University to teach portions of an undergraduate course in numerical methods. ... The system is designed as a classroom-independent course of study, and has been used for two semesters by students in lieu of conventional classroom instruction.

CACM-3158
Each user is responsible for his own security and need not rely on the security of the central facility or the communication links. ... A user can safely store confidential files in the central facility or transmit confidential data to other users on the network.

CACM-2188
The work reported here develops an objective, quantitative design procedure and helps give a better understanding of now to configure display systems. ... By combining the model with an optimization, the best graphics system configuration, subject to a cost constraint, is found for several applications.

CACM-1211
Its relation to similar schemes is discussed. ... A Note on Storage of Strings A method for storing strings is described which uses blocks of indefinite size, and is therefore completely dynamic.

CACM-1122
Speierman of Burroughs. ... A Note on Some Compiling Algorithms Two compiling generators for arithmetic expressions are discussed: one presently in use in an experimental compiler, and an improvement suggested by K.

CACM-0020
An illustrative example is given. ... Accelerating Convergence of Iterative Processes A technique is discussed which, when applied to an iterative procedure for the solution of an equation, accelerates the rate of convergence if the iteration converges and induces convergence if the iteration diverges.

CACM-2798
e. ... Analysis of Interleaved Memory Systems Using Blockage Buffers A model of interleaved memory systems is presented, and the analysis of the model by Monte Carlo simulation is discussed.

CACM-1751
"Process" and "working set" are shown to be manifestations of the same ongoing computational activity; then "processor demand" and "memory demand" are defined; and resource allocation is formulated as the problem of balancing demands against available equipment. ... The Working Set Model for Program Behavior Probably the most basic reason behind the absence of a general treatment of resource allocation in modern computer systems is an adequate model for program behavior.

CACM-1206
Data compatibility tests with any number of different equations can be made quickly. ... The Instrument Reliability Factors (IRF), which exactly define the limits of reliability of each measured item of information, are used to compute the Maximum Permitted Error (MPE) associated with each values of each ordinate.

CACM-2706
A Note on the Set Basis Problem Related to the Compaction of Character Sets This note discusses the reduction of the set basis problem to the clique cover problem.

CACM-0596
The paper concludes with an example in which these procedures are used. ... Floating-Point Arithmetic in COBOL In this paper the basic operations of floating-point arithmetic are examined and COBOL procedures for carrying these out are given, along with specification of working storage.

CACM-1973
The Linear Quotient Hash Code A new method of hash coding is presented and is shown to possess desirable attributes. ... Specifically, the algorithm is simple, efficient, and exhaustive, while needing little time per probe and using few probes per lookup.

CACM-2288
File Organization: The Consecutive Retrieval Property The consecutive retrieval property is an important relation between a query set and record set. ... Conditions under which the consecutive retrieval property exists and remain invariant have been established.

CACM-2720
Optimal Balancing of I/O Requests to Disks Determining a policy for efficient allocation and utilization of a set of disk drives with differing operational characteristics is examined using analytical techniques. ... Specific examples using 2314 and 3330 combinations are examined.

CACM-3182
The changes resulting from the accelerating use of EFTs and its continual technological advances broaden the scope of security issues to be examined. ... Although the nomenclature for business crimes remains the same as for manual depository and other financial service systems - for example, fraud, theft, embezzlement - the characteristics of the crimes are new.

CACM-1158
Program Structures for Parallel Processing Constructs for organizing and explicating parallel program segments are discussed as extensions to ALGOL 60. ... The constructs serve as meta-commands and are motivated by equipment having multiprocessing capability.

CACM-0942
Wehave found that the many different numerical processes that were required could be built up almost completely from a small number of basic operations, and a set of FORTRAN subroutines has been written to perform these. ... The main purpose of this note is to describe these subroutines, but since the question of general statistical programs is topical [1], we include some general remarks.

CACM-0046
Multiprogramming STRETCH: Feasibility Considerations The tendency towards increased parallelism in computers is noted. ... Minimum requirements for successful concurrent execution of several independent problem programs are discussed.

CACM-2879
Computer Science as Empirical Inquiry: Symbols and Search.

CACM-2813
The Computer Science and Engineering Research Study (COSERS) The Computer Science and Engineering Research Study (COSERS) is briefly described. ... For possible further reference, the subject area panel chairmen and the members of the Steering Committee are identified.

CACM-1807
The method presented requires at least a three-pass compiler, the second of which is scanned backward. ... Optimization of Expressions in Fortran A method of optimizing the computation of arithmetic and indexing expressions of a Fortran program is presented.

CACM-2389
The algorithms used to solve problems expressed in this language rely on heuristic programming. ... The language is an extension of Algol and includes means to represent spaces and objects, to manipulate them, and to test the resulting arrangements according to a variety of constraints.

CACM-1526
Multiprogramming under a Page on Demand Strategy A model of multiprogramming for a particular computer system using a page on demand strategy is developed. ... The effect of several hardware modifications is also analyzed.

CACM-1369
Half Rotations in N-Dimensional Euclidean Space An iterative procedure is described for determining half rotations in n-dimensional Euclidean space. ... The method is a variant of the cyclic Jacobi procedure and utilizers elementary plane rotations to obtain the half rotation matrix.

CACM-3183
A number of forces and actors are involved in this evolution, and the values vary significantly depending on individual and institutional perspectives. ... These value conflicts are highlighted in a six-part research agenda: technological issues in EFT, EFT impacts on people, economic impact of EFT, regulation and control of EFT, and evaluating and monitoring EFT systems.

CACM-0758
The major components of these programs as well as their purposes and interrelationships are outlined. ... Skeletal Structure of PERT and CPA Computer Programs An introduction to the inner mechanics of PERT and CPA computer programs is provided.

CACM-1121
Comments on "A Continued Operation Notation"* This note is intended to clarify and correct several points in a recent paper describing some notations for symbol manipulation by M. ... ACM 6(August, 1963)].

CACM-3068
A Model for Verification of Data Security in Operating Systems Program verification applied to kernel architectures forms a promising method for providing uncircumventably secure, shared computer systems. ... The application of this approach to the UCLA secure operating system is also discussed.

CACM-3153
Applying a decomposition approach and treating the closed system as a single server, the response times in an open system with external arrivals are studied. ... Numerical solutions and economical lower bounds for the expected response times as functions of the control parameters are obtained.

CACM-0889
Official Actions and Responses to ALGOL As a Programming Language.

CACM-1404
Computational Aspects of Multiple Covariance Analysis on a Multifactor Structure The computational procedure for the analysis of multiple covariance in statistics is discussed with reference to the analysis of variance. ... A special operator calculus developed by Hartly for programming analysis of variance for multifactor experiments is extended to cover the analysis of covariance.

CACM-2969
Insights into whether or not to convert programs from one computer to another can also be gained from the model. ... This algorithm takes into account the dependencies between files and programs such as occur in real heterogeneous computer networks.

CACM-2978
Design alternatives within this class of index structures are analyzed. ... These alternatives include a choice of search strategy, whether or not pages in the index are structured, and whether or not keys are compressed.

CACM-1047
The process consists of using particularly simple similarity transformations to generate full matrices from canonical forms. ... Generation of Test Matrices by Similarity Transformations A method for obtaining test matrices with a prescribed distribution of characteristic roots is given.

CACM-1168
The COBOL language was used specifically to enable the system to operate on three IBM computers. ... Across Machine Lines in COBOL The production of a large, file-maintenance-and-retrieval program system written in COBOL is described.

CACM-3077
Combining forms are chosen not only for their programming power but also for the power of their associated algebraic laws. ... Functional programs deal with structured data, are often nonrepetitive and nonrecursive, are hierarchically constructed, do not name their arguments, and do not require the complex machinery of procedure declarations to become generally applicable.

CACM-1353
Objective criteria are given for accomplishing the numerical steps of the method and the calculation of necessary tolerances. ... Techniques for Automatic Tolerance Control in Linear Programming In this technical note, the numerical steps for the simplex method of linear programming are reviewed and the tolerances needed in the numerical procedure are defined.

CACM-2377
A Hardware Architecture for Implementing Protection Rings Protection of computations and information is an important aspect of a computer utility. ... In a system which uses segmentation as a memory addressing scheme, protection can be achieved in part by associating concentric rings of decreasing access privilege with a computation.

CACM-3103
In the past, programming systems have provided only a single general purpose implementation for an abstract type. ... General issues in data structure selection are also reviewed.

CACM-3191
Generating Permutations by Nested Cycling   The purpose of this letter is two_fold: first to give due credit to the Tompkins-Paige algorithm, and second to clarify a comment by Hill, CR Review 13891 on "Programs for Permutations".

CACM-1215
Some little known but significant techniques in compiler writing, together with organizational details of this compiler, are described. ... Timing estimates and an indication of compiler requirements are also given.

CACM-2170
Particular emphasis is placed on applications in quantum electrodynamics where the most activity has occurred. ... Applications of Symbol Manipulation in Theoretical Physics This paper surveys the applications of symbolic computation techniques to problems in theoretical physics.

CACM-0298
These tests substantiated the randomness of all numbers except for the set of integers coming from the least significant bits. ... A 48-Bit Pseudo-Random Number Generator A new 48-bit pseudo-random number generator, suitable for several computers, was tested statistically for randomness to determine its adequacy for use in Monte Carlo programs.

CACM-2632
mmp, the Carnegie-Mellon Multi-Mini-Processor. ... HYDRA: The Kernel of a Multiprocessor Operating System This paper describes the design philosophy of HYDRA-the kernel of an operating system for C.

CACM-1703
Use of the organizational trademark (TRAC) on the published standards, and services relying upon them, provides a reliable public identification. ... Oppressive rigidity usually associated with standardization is avoided by a new accommodation technique accessible to the user to allow local variations with the language.

CACM-2264
Correctness of the implementation involves checking that the definitions derived in the step above are an acceptable formalization of the informal description given in the first step. ... A proof is constructed that the effect of translating and executing any program can be expressed solely in terms of the value and side-effect of the program.

CACM-2108
The characteristics of the proposed sort are discussed. ... A Variation on Sorting by Address Calculation The principles of address calculation and merging are combined to yield an efficient sorting technique.

CACM-1345
Tensor Calculations on the Computer A FORMAC program has been written which is capable of calculating various quantities of interest in tensor calculus. ... Using this code, Christoffel symbols have been calculated for 12 basic orthogonal coordinate systems.

CACM-1031
A Note on Starting the Newton-Raphson Method Determination of a suitable initial estimate for a root of an equation f(x) = 0 by means of computing the roots of a sequence of related equations is described.

CACM-2423
A Parser-Generating System for Constructing Compressed Compilers This paper describes a parser-generating system (PGS) currently in use on the CDC-6500 computer at Purdue University. ... In the input translation grammar, each BNF syntactic rule corresponds to a (possibly empty) "code generator" realizable as an assembly language, Fortran or Algol, subroutine that is called whenever that syntactic rule is applied in the parse of a program.

CACM-1649
Methods of using this information are illustrated in relation to general purpose data directed input and output routines; some other uses such as matrix manipulation are discussed. ... The Hollerith names, the location, the mode and the dimensions of a variable can be discovered by means of standard FORTRAN statements.

CACM-3119
The Impact of Distributions and Disciplines on Multiple Processor Systems Simple queueing models are used to study the performance tradeoffs of multiple processor systems. ... Issues considered include the impact of CPU service disciplines and distributions, level of multiprogramming, multitasking, and job priorities.

CACM-2652
This paper describes the use of simulation techniques to predict the savings in compilation cost achievable by such an approach. ... Reduction of Compilation Costs Through Language Contraction Programming languages tailored to particular groups of users can often be constructed by removing unwanted features from a general purpose language.

CACM-2616
Extensions to the theory of computation and computability are suggested. ... On the Conversion of Programs to Decision Tables: Method and Objectives The problems of converting programs to decision tables are investigated.

CACM-2595
A Note on the Calculation Working Set Size Finite-length reference string of arbitrary structure are considered, and an exact expression for average working set size in terms of "corrected" interreference interval statistics is derived. ... This work follows the developments of a paper by Denning and Schwartz, who consider infinite-length reference strings which satisfy certain statistical properties and who derive an expression relating the asymptotic average working set size to the asymptotic missing page rate function under working set replacement.

CACM-1743
A flowchart for the reliable scheme and some interesting examples are given. ... Reliable Full-Duplex file Transmission over Half-Duplex Telephone Lines A field-proven scheme for achieving reliable duplex transmission over a half-duplex communication line is presented, and to demonstrate the difficulty of the problem, another similar scheme, which is only slightly unreliable, is also presented.

CACM-2050
Automatic Parsing for Content Analysis Although automatic syntactic and semantic analysis is not yet possible for all of an unrestricted natural language text, some applications, of which content analysis is one, do not have such a stringent coverage requirement. ... This provides a degree of coverage for content analysis variables which compares favorably to manual methods, in variables which compares favorably to manual methods, in which only a sample of the total available text is normally processed.

CACM-1001
Copyright Aspects of Computer Usage This paper is concerned with the question of what constitutes infringement of a copyright on a book or other nondramatic literary work when the work is fed into a computer and is indexed, analyzed, partially reprinted, or otherwise utilized by the computer to produce eye-readable output. ... The question of copyrightability of programs and infringement of copyrights on programs is also discussed.

CACM-0856
This description is divided into three parts. ... Sorting with Large Volume, Random Access, Drum Storage An approach to sorting records is described using random access drum memory.

CACM-1740
An Inexpensive Braille Terminal Device The active use of time-shared facilities for blind programmers requires a braille terminal system. ... A description of the programming needed to drive the brailler is presented.

CACM-0300
Language Bros. ... A mythical department store, "E.

CACM-2413
A Note on Subexpression Ordering in the Execution of Arithmetic Expressions A counterexample to the supposed optimality of an algorithm for generating schedules for trees of tasks with unequal execution times is presented. ... A comparison with the "critical path" heuristic is discussed.

CACM-2481
The Distribution of a Program in Primary and Fast Buffer Storage A virtual memory computer system with a fast buffer (cache) memory between primary memory and the central processing unit is considered. ... The optimal distribution of a program between the buffer and primary memory is studied using the program's lifetime function.

CACM-2669
The resulting model is easy to manipulate, and is applicable to such diverse problems as choosing an optimum size for a paging memory, arranging for reproducible memory usage charges, and estimating the amount of core memory sharing. ... A Simple Linear Model of Demand Paging Performance Predicting the performance of a proposed automatically managed multilevel memory system requires a model of the patterns by which programs refer to the information stored in the memory.

CACM-0644
A primer or informal description of the language is followed by examples, a description of experiments with the language on an IBM 704 computer, and a formal description which, taken with the ALGOL 60 Report, defines the proposed string language. ... A String Language for Symbol Manipulation Based on ALGOL 60 An artificial computer programming language is proposed for describing the manipulation of strings of characters and symbols.

CACM-0961
These techniques allow individual bits to be tested, certain fields to be shifted, and numbers coded in BCD to be converted to Binary. ... Limited Bit Manipulation Using FORTRAN II Techniques are developed for manipulating bits using only FORTRAN II.

CACM-2487
Cubic Spline solutions to Fourth-order Boundary Value Problems The cubic spline approximation to the fourth-order differential equation y''''+p(x)y''+q(x)y'+r(x)y=t(x) is shown to reduce to the solution of a five-term recurrence relationship. ... For some special cases the approximation is shown to be simply related to a finite difference representation with a local truncation error of order (y/720)delta^8.

CACM-2592
This paper presents a theoretical justification and an illustrative implementation of a method for generating linear programming test problems with known solutions. ... On Generation of Test Problems for Linear Programming Codes Users of linear programming computer codes have realized the necessity of evaluating the capacity, effectiveness, and accuracy of the solutions provided by such codes.

CACM-2930
The GRE program is described in general, and, the events leading to the establishment of the Advanced Computer Science Test are discussed. ... A set of sample questions is included.

CACM-2708
Suggestions for further research on this topic conclude the paper. ... Practical Syntactic Error Recovery This paper describes a recovery scheme for syntax errors which provides automatically-generated high quality recovery with good diagnostic information at relatively low cost.

CACM-1309
Use of two special languages, EXTRACT and MATRAN, permits selective extraction of any data subset, efficient processing through any computational sequence, and flexible presentation of results in either tabular or graphical form. ... A Computer User-Oriented System A computer language system has been developed which makes possible fast preparation of management reports, regardless of computational complexity or format variety.

CACM-3141
An Improved Algorithm for Decentralized Extrema-Finding in Circular Configurations of Processes This note presents an improvement to LeLann's algorithm for finding the largest (or smallest) of a set of uniquely numbered processes arranged in a circle, in which no central controller exists and the number of processes is not known a priori. ... This decentralized algorithm uses a technique of selective message extinction in order to achieve an average number of message passes of order (n log n) rather than O(n2).

CACM-3174
The present design was the result of countering observed attempts to penetrate the system. ... Password Security: A Case History This paper describes the history of the design of the password security scheme on a remotely accessed time-sharing system.

CACM-3165
Approximation of Polygonal Maps by Cellular Maps The approximation of polygonal thematic maps by cellular maps, an important operation in geographical data processing, is analyzed. ... The algorithm is applied to a set of soil maps converted to computer-readable form by means of a coordinate digitizer.

CACM-2630
On Computing Sets of Shortest Paths in a Graph Two algorithms are presented that construct the k shortest paths between every pair of vertices in a directed graph. ... These algorithms generalize the Floyd algorithm and the Dantzig algorithm for finding the shortest path between every pair of vertices in a directed graph.

CACM-2649
This result is then used to determine the distribution of the roundoff errors in floating-point operations, which is a mixture of uniform and reciprocal distributions. ... On the Distributions of Significant Digits and Roundoff Errors Generalized logarithmic law is derived for the distribution of the first t significant digits of a random digital integer.

CACM-1659
Computational Linguistics in a Ph. ... Computer Science Program This report contains recommendations for a course curriculum on computational linguistics in a Ph.

CACM-1067
Gray scales with 17, 32 and 64 levels have been devised. ... Scanned images of blood cells are used to display the technique.

CACM-0761
A Note on the Dangling Else in ALGOL 60 Some revisions of ALGOL 60 are proposed, which not only eliminate certain ambiguous statements but also add some convenience to the language. ... A discussion of the background of the problem and a sketch of a proof that the ambiguities have been removed is included.

CACM-0086
Survey of Progress and Trend of Development and Use of Automatic Data Processing in Business and Management Control Systems of the Federal Government, as of December 1957.

CACM-0892
Some examples of a typical file application and the more significant features of a particular machine implementation are given. ... The language of the interrogation scheme allows for selecting file records with the are of logical condition statements, defining record classes, associating file records, editing printed output, and summarizing the results of the above operations.

CACM-3184
Revised Report on the Algorithmic Language ALGOL 60   The report gives a complete defining description of the international algorithmic language ALGOL 60. ... This is a language suitable for expressing a large class of numerical processes in a form sufficiently concise for direct automatic translation into the language of programmed automatic computers.

CACM-1927
Computer Science Program. ... Suitable bibliographies are appended.

CACM-0059
Survey of Progress and Trend of Development and Use of Automatic Data Processing in Business and Management control Systems of the Federal Government, as of December 1957-III.

CACM-1235
Some suffix tests and logical-decision rules are employed to code additional words. ... About half of the word-events in a corpus are identified through the use of a small dictionary of function words and frequently occurring lexical words.

CACM-2955
Buddy Systems Two algorithms are presented for implementing any of a class of buddy systems for dynamic storage allocation. ... Analyses of the in ternal fragmentation of the binary buddy system, the Fibonacci buddy system, and the weighted buddy system are given.

CACM-2943
Nevertheless, Lucid programs need not look much different than iterative programs in a conventional structured programming language using assignment and conditional statements and loops. ... Lucid, a Nonprocedural Language with Iteration Lucid is a formal system in which programs can be written and proofs of programs carried out.

CACM-1551
On Compiling Algorithms for Arithmetic Expressions This paper deals with algorithms concerning arithmetic expressions used in a FORTRAN IV compiler for a HITAC-5020 computer having n accumulators. ... The algorithms generate an object code which minimizes the frequency of storing and recovering the partial results of the arithmetic expressions in cases where there are several accumulators.

CACM-0759
Continued Operation Notation for Symbol Manipulation and Array Processing A brief account is given of a notational device that is very useful in the formal representation of syntaxes, string relationships and string transformation procedures and also of computing procedures that deal with arrays of functions of many variables. ... The device consists of the use of certain "continued operation" or "collective" symbols that are analogous to the summation symbol (Sigma) and continued multiplication symbol (Pi) of conventional mathematics.

CACM-0962
Double-Precision Squares Root for The CDC-3600 In January of 1960, the late Hans J. ... The present work, largely inspired by the successes of Maehly and his associates, concerns the extension of one of Maehly's ideas to a double-precision subroutine for the 3600.

CACM-2895
The specifications are constrain ts on the order in which events of a computation can occur. ... The language is used to write specifications of the readers/writers problem and the writer priority of the second readers/writers problem.

CACM-2996
Use of these statistics is appropriate if the contents of the working set at the start of the recorded string are unknown. ... In particular, methods are described for handling long strings containing many distinct page names.

CACM-1629
Stat-Pack: A Biostatistical Programming Package A package of FORTRAN statistical programs for use on almost any small to medium size (40k characters or 8k words) for which a FORTRAN II compiler exists is described and its availability is announced. ... The major design criteria of ease of use, ease of modification, flexibility of input and detail of output are described.

CACM-2746
The algorithm consists of constructing a finite state pattern matching machine from the keywords and then using the pattern matching machine to process the text string in a single pass. ... The algorithm has been used to improve the speed of a library bibliographic search program by a factor of 5 to 10.

CACM-2871
The first part of the paper is devoted to techniques for the automatic generation of invariants. ... As a unified solution to these problems, this paper suggests conducting a logical analysis of programs by using invariants which express what is actually occurring in the program.

CACM-0084
Survey of Progress and Trend of Development and Use of Automatic Data Processing in Business and Management Control Systems of the Federal Government, as of December 1957-II (Part 2 see CA590406).

CACM-0727
On the Approximate Solution of Delta(u)=F(u) Three-dimensional Dirichlet problems for Delta(u)=F(u), Fu >= 0, are treated numerically by an exceptionally fast, exceptionally accurate numerical method. ... Programming details, numerous examples and mathematical theory are suppliedxtension of the method in a natural way to n-dimensional problems is indicated by means of a 4-dimensional example.

CACM-1604
The results are interpreted in terms of the properties of the system studied. ... Further Analysis of a Computing Center Environment Empirical distributions of program lengths, execution times, processing times, and loading times of over 10,000 jobs serviced in a university computing center environment are presented.

CACM-1644
A simple method for adjust ing the constant term of the computed polynomial to get a better approximation to the true least squares polynomial is described. ... On the Computation of Least Squares Polynomials Rounding error accumulated during digital computation of a least squares polynomial makes the computed polynomial only an approximation to the true least square polynomial.

CACM-2764
Its core is a system of preferential choice between deep semantic patterns, based on what we call "semantic density. ... " The system is contrasted: (1) with syntax oriented linguistic approaches, and (2) with theorem proving approaches to the understanding problem.

CACM-2289
A major challenge in the effective use of cellular arrays for the solution of graph problems is the determination of algorithms that exploit the possibilities for parallelism, especially for problems whose solutions appear to be inherently serial. ... In this paper it is shown that cellular arrays are inherently well suited for the solution of many graph problems.

CACM-1274
On the Numerical Solution of an N-Point Boundary Value Problem for Linear Ordinary Differential Equations A method for the numerical solution of then-point boundary value problem for homogeneous linear ordinary differential equations is developed. ... The method requires two Runge-Kutta integrations over the interval under consideration and the solution of a linear system of equations with n-1 unknowns.

CACM-1181
A Simple Data Transmission System Using the Office Telephone A method has evolved for transmitting data of a type originating in many laboratory situation direct to a central computer. ... The method requires almost no specialized equipment and uses any ordinary telephone on a "callup" basis.

CACM-0963
Equations are derived which permit the determination of these effects from hardware usage measurements. ... Relative Effects of Central Processor and Input-Output Speeds Upon Throughput on the Large Computer Presented in this paper is a technique for determining the relative effects of the internal speed of the computer and the speed of the input-output units upon the overall speed of the system.

CACM-2048
Comparison of Several Adaptive Newton-Cotes Quadrature Routines in Evaluating Definite Integrals with Peaked Integrands This report compares the performance of five different adaptive quadrature schemes, based on Newton-Cotes (2N + 1) point rules (N = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5), in approximating the set of definite integrals INTEGRAL$1/(x^2 + p^2)) dx with relative accuracy e.

CACM-1587
The method is applicable to iterative processes in which input data items once chosen are never again needed. ... Some important special cases are considered in which considerable simplification occurs.

CACM-0082
Handling Identifiers as Internal Symbols in Language Processors Substitution of computer-oriented symbols for programmer-oriented symbols in language processors is examined and a feasible method for doing so is presented.

CACM-2605
A Precise Numerical Analysis Program A description is given of a program for computing the solution to a small number of standard numerical analysis problems to any specified accuracy, up to a limit of 2000 correct decimal places. ... Arithmetic operations involving these numbers are executed according to interval arithmetic concepts, with non-significant digits automatically discarded.

CACM-2628
Fixed-head drum and moving-head drum and moving-head disk storage units are considered, and emphasis is placed on the relative merits of the MTPT scheduling discipline with respect to the shortest-latency-time-first (SLTF) scheduling discipline. ... For most fixed-head drum applications, the SLTF discipline is preferable to MTPT, but for intra-cylinder disk scheduling the MTPT discipline offers a distinct advantage over the SLTF discipline.

CACM-0096
On Computing Radiation Integrals The relative merit and cost of four ways of evaluating typical radiation integrals containing spherical Bessel functions are investigated. ... These methods are desk machine evaluation of a finite series, integration of the appropriate differential equation by a Reeves Electronic Analog Computer and by a Litton 40 IBM 704 computer.

CACM-3004
Top-down program design is implemented through the use of structured flowcharts, disciplined specifications, and step by step verification. ... Structured Programming in Cobol: An Approach for Application Programmers Techniques for designing and writing Cobol programs are presented.

CACM-1724
The power of the sort is tabulated for various sizes of input file and number of work files. ... A Generalized Partial Pass Block Sort The design of a partial pass block sort with arbitrary range of key and number of work files is described.

CACM-2457
Inductive Methodsfor Proving Properties of Programs There are two main purposes in this paper: first, clarification and extension of known results about computation of recursive programs, with emphasis on the difference between the theoretical and practical approaches; second, presentation and examination of various known methods for proving properties of recursive programs. ... Discussed in detail are two powerful inductive methods computational induction and structural induction, including examples of their applications.

CACM-1621
The point is made that experts in science, technology, and programming are guaranteed a correct ALGOL documentation without spending valuable time and power on typographic considerations and proofreading. ... Computer Typesetting of ALGOL An application of computer-aided typesetting is introduced.

CACM-1084
The scheme provides for: many-to-one encodings, right or left justification, collating sequences different from numeric sequence, variations in character size (number of bits. ... ) from alphabet to alphabet, and arbitrary source-language character representation.

CACM-2869
This paper describes the technique used to carry out the first step of the proof: validating a formal specification of the program with respect to a axioms for a secure system. ... The correctness of a security kernel on a PDP-11/45 is being proved.

CACM-1305
Emphasis is on the compilation of expressions, of input/output lists, and of subscripted variables. ... The Internal Structure of the FORTRAN CEP Translator The FORTRAN CEP translator converts a source program written in the FORTRAN CEP language into an object program written in the language of the CEP computer.

CACM-1975
The uniqueness of this method will cause each trial cipher in the quotient to be either equal to or one greater than its final replacement. ... Depending upon the algebraic relationship of the first two ciphers of the divisor, one or at most two adjustments to the original divisor and dividend must be performed before the division operation can be initiated.

CACM-3113
Optimal Conversion of Extended-Entry Decision Tables with General Cost Criteria A general dynamic programming algorithm for converting limited, extended, or mixed entry decision tables to optimal decision trees is presented which can take into account rule frequencies or probabilities, minimum time and/or space cost criteria, common action sets, compressed rules and ELSE rules, sequencing constraints on condition tests, excludable combinations of conditions, certain ambiguities, and interrupted rule masking.

CACM-3049
SEMBEGS is easy to extend and modify to meet the growing needs of a large batch environment, and is even extendable to a fully interactive system. ... The design of SEMBEGS is founded upon the basic assumption that the true aim of computer graphics is to describe graphical entities, rather than, as commonly held, to provide graphical input and output functional capabilities.

CACM-3137
The model describes the major costs of using an information system from the perspective of the end-user. ... The technique is illustrated by application to the design of an interactive transaction processing system.

CACM-1507
Its architecture and implementation is largely based on certain objectives and characteristics of a general data analysis scheme. ... A Multiprogramming Environment for Online Data Acquis ition and Analysis An experimental system for acquis ition and analysis of large bodies of data derived from scientific experiments is described.

CACM-2300
Louis County Council seats. ... Only nonpartisan criteria are considered.

CACM-1496
A Formal Semantics for Computer Languages and its Application In a Compiler-Compiler A semantic meta-language has been developed for representing the meanings of statements in a large class of computer languages. ... An informal discussion of the meta-language based on the example of a complete translator for a small language is presented.

CACM-0252
After achieving the required level of integration, both computers do similar processing on the same inputs and continually cross-check the intermediate and final results. ... The duplex operation gives the system greater reliability.

CACM-0825
The input to the program consists of spark-chamber photographs on which tracks of high-energy particles are recorded. ... In continuous operation a processing rate of 5,000 photographic frames per hour is achieved.

CACM-2859
The model results provide a good indication of the performance that should be expected from real system of this type. ... The model of the limiting behavior of the system yields approximate results for the simple model and also suggests that the results are valid for a much larger class of models, including those more nearly like real systems that the simple model are tested against some measurements of program behavior and simulations of systems using memory references from real programs.

CACM-3139
Finally an exact method is given which performs better than the Randall-Brown algorithm and is able to color larger graphs, and the new heuristic methods, the classical methods, and the exact method are compared. ... New Methods to Color the Vertices of a Graph This paper describes efficient new heuristic methods to color the vertices of a graph which rely upon the comparison of the degrees and structure of a graph.

CACM-3093
The scheme, which is based on LR parsing, is driven by information which is directly and automatically obtainable from the information that is already present in an LR parser. ... Automatic Error Recovery for LR Parsers In this paper we present a scheme for detecting and recovering from syntax errors in programs.

CACM-1686
A new approach based on point apertures for the image is discussed. ... Computer Synthesis of Holograms for 3-D Display Optical and digital holography are reviewed.

CACM-2958
Abstract Data Types and the Development of Data Structures Abstract data types can play a significant role in the development of software that is reliable, efficient, and flexible. ... Among the examples presented is a top-down development of a symbol table for a block structured language; a discussion of the proof of its correctness is given.

CACM-2891
An Anomaly in Disk Scheduling: A Comparison of FCFS and SSTF Seek Scheduling Using an Empirical Model for Disk Accesses A model for disk accesses based on published measurements is developed. ... The model is used to show that under highly probable conditions, FCFS seek scheduling is superior to SSTF scheduling in the sense of having a lower mean queue length.

CACM-0531
These records must be linked in order to provide unduplicated counts of individuals under care and longitudinal records of psychiatric history. ... In vital and health records, however, a unique number is generally not preassigned to an individual for purposes of reporting services received to the health department.

CACM-2560
Expressions are obtained for the long-run probability that both the CPU and each of the storage devices are busy. ... A Queuing Model of a Multiprogrammed Computer with a Two-Level Storage System The results are presented of an analysis of a probabilistic model of a multiprogrammed computer system with a two-level storage system in which there is sequential dependency of accesses between the devices.

CACM-1331
Code Structures for Protection and Manipulation of Variable-Length Items When items are made up of a variable number of characters, each containing the same number of bits, certain control information (partition symbols) is inserted to mark their separations. ... A 6-bit code assignment of alphanumeric characters for fixed word-length computers is given and its suitability for error detection and variable-length item manipulation is shown.

CACM-2313
The Evolution of Storage Structures Data base management systems have grown rapidly in their power and complexity over the 15-year history of data processing on commercially available computers. ... The Data Structure Diagram graphic technique is used to illustrate the splitting of the concepts and the structural relations which exist between these concepts at each point in the evolution.

CACM-0982
Experimental evidence is presented in support of the premise upon which this conception is based. ... The conception of sentence translation which motivates the work is informally presented, and the measurement of physical similarity in pairs of strings is discussed, a notion which plays a central role in the proposed type of translator.

CACM-2828
Fourth, frame to frame coherence and clipping define a graphical "working set," or fraction of the total structure that should be present in primary store for immediate access by the visible surface algorithm. ... By using an extension of traditional structure information, or a geometric hierarchy, five significant improvements to current techniques are possible.

CACM-1308
The proposed overall system is presented and experiments and demonstrations are discussed. ... One approach to the mathematical model consists of a group of surface-defining quadric equations, which are created by a system of modular subprogram.

CACM-2862
Analysis of the PFF Replacement Algorithm via a Semi-Markov Model An analytical model is presented to estimate the performance of the Page Fault Frequency (PFF) replacement algorithm. ... In this model, program behavior is represented by the LRU stack distance model and the PFF replacement algorithm is represented by a semi-Markov model.

CACM-1901
Dynamic Space-Sharing in Computer Systems A formalization of relationships between space-shading program behavior, and processor efficiency in computer systems is presented. ... The intent is to illustrate a possible analytic approach to the investigation of the problems of space-sharing and to demonstrate the method on sample problems.

CACM-2785
Glypnir-A Programming Language for Illiac IV GLYPNIR is one of the earliest existing languages designed for programming the Illiac IV computer. ... This paper describes the characteristics, goals and philosophy of the language, and discusses some of the problems associated with parallel computer architectures.

CACM-1785
Many of the most useful variants of the techniques are documented. ... Scatter Storage Techniques Scatter storage techniques as a method for implementing the symbol tables of assemblers and compilers are reviewed and a number of ways of using them more effectively are presented.

CACM-3173
A Psychology of Learning BASIC This paper addresses the question: What does a person know following learning of BASIC programming? Several underlying conceptual structures are identified: (1) a transaction is an event that occurs in the computer and involves some operation on some object at some location, (2) a prestatement is a set of transactions corresponding to a line of code, (3) chunks are frequently occurring configurations of prestatements corresponding to several lines of code.

CACM-2913
A method for evaluating filters is presented, the application of prefiltering to hidden-surface algorithms is discussed, and an implementation of a filtering tiler is shown accompanied by examples of its effectiveness. ... Although increasing the resolution or defocusing the display can attenuate them, an understanding of these defects leads to more effective methods.

CACM-2325
Numerical Mathematics and Computer Science Numerical mathematics is viewed as the analysis of continuous algorithms. ... Four of the components of numerical mathematics are discussed.

CACM-1230
Method for Hyphenating at the End of a Printed Line A description of a method of hyphenation is presented as a result of application of several general rules. ... The character sets considered by the routine and the method are briefly outlined.

CACM-0329
Automatic Abstracting and Indexing Survey and Recommendations In preparation for the widespread use of automatic scanners which will read documents and transmit their contents to other machines for analysis, this report presents a new concept in automatic analysis: the relative-frequency approach to measuring the significance of words, word groups, and sentences. ... Included in the report is a summary of automatic analysis studies published as of the date of writing.

CACM-2826
This control sequence is then used to drive an image sequence through the same movement. ... This technique allows an animator to develop a complex motion sequence by animating a stick figure representation of an image.

CACM-2218
Summary data is presented, and the findings are discussed. ... The vehicle for this investigation was a SIMULA based simulation model reflecting an early framework for a planned Burroughs B6500 time-sharing system.

CACM-0893
Several numerical experiments using this mode are described and comparisons are made with the ordinary "normalized mode. ... The manner in which floating-point arithmetic is handled in this mode is discussed.

CACM-2129
Recursive Computation of Certain Derivatives-A Study of Error Propagation A brief study is made of the propagation of errors in linear first-order difference equations. ... The recursive computation of successive derivatives of (e^x)/x and (cos x)/x is considered as an illustration.

CACM-1809
The difficulties of education in such a broad area center around the question of background and emphasis. ... Nevertheless, there is a need for a solid background in applied mathematics.

CACM-1426
A Simulation of Hospital Admission Policy A study is described which simulates different admission policies of a large specialized hospital. ... There types of policies were examined: admission based on percentages of discharge rates, discharge rates plus or minus a constant, and fixed authorizations independent of discharge rates.

CACM-2687
The feasibility of such a display is shown by deriving the minimum number of patterns required in the read only memory of the character generator to synthesize an arbitrary line. ... The synthesis process does not compromise picture quality since the resulting dot patterns are identical with those of a conventional raster display.

CACM-2963
An algorithm for this problem is presented which has a running time of O((r + n)log n), where r is the total number of ordered pairs of positions at which the two sequences match. ... Thus in the worst case the algorithm has a running time of O(n^2 log n).

CACM-1180
Several complete programs of imperatives are given to show a few applications of the language. ... A transformation consists of a matching procedure, which decides where an imperative is applicable, and a replacement procedure that modifies that part of the workspace.

CACM-2019
The principle involves transforming a quadrilateral specified in terms of the convex hull of each pattern into a square. ... The amount of overlap within each class of characters versus the amount between classes is used to evaluate the degree of normalization achieved with respect to other published methods including size and shear normalization through moments.

CACM-1006
A Storage Allocation and Reference Structure A method is proposed and discussed which allows a subscripted-variable capability (in the FORTRAN sense) to be added to AUTOCODER-Type assembly systems.

CACM-2716
A relational algebra interface, called SQUIRAL, which was designed using this approach, is described in detail. ... F.

CACM-3194
Parallels between these problems and those of chemical analysis are pointed out. ... A Non-heuristic Program for Proving Elementary Logical Theorems   The paper discusses problems involved in designing a device capable of distinguishing among speech events that are normally recognized as different by native speakers of a particular language.

CACM-2887
Over 80 percent of error diagnosis was found to be inaccurate. ... 80 percent of Cobol misspellings were classifiable in the four error categories of previous researchers, which implies that Cobol misspellings are correctable by existent algorithms.

CACM-0728
Computer-Drawn Flowcharts* To meet the need for improved documentation of written computer programs, a simple system for effective communication is presented, which has shown great promise. ... The programmer describes his program in a simple format, and the computer prepares flow charts and other cross-referenced listings from this input.

CACM-3012
The results show the important role played by frequently chosen laboratory reference leaders in influencing the use of this system. ... Additional data on user reactions were gathe red from a questionnaire.

CACM-1147
The method described is noniterative and makes use of any one-step numerical integration scheme to reduce the problem from one of boundary values to one of initial values. ... On the Numerical Solution of Boundary Value Problems for Linear Ordinary Differential Equations* A numerical method is presented for the solution of boundary value problems involving linear ordinary differential equations.

CACM-3185
The Humble Programmer   We shall do a much better programming job, provided that we approach the task with a full appreciation if its tremendous difficulty, provided that we stick to modest and elegant programming languages, provided that we respect the intrinsic limitations of the human mind and approach the task as Very Humble Programmers.

CACM-2198
This introduction gives a review of the current state of the art in these systems and discusses the differences and similarities between capabilities found in host language systems and those found in self-contained systems. ... The final section outlines the ten major topics in the main body of the full report.

CACM-0730
The chief features of the system, which is intended for the solution of scientific problems, are the presentation of mathematical formulas entirely in standard textbook notation. ... MIRFAG: A Compiler Based on Standard Mathematical Notation And Plain English A pilot version of the compiler MIRFAG, now in operation, is described.

CACM-3027
An overall view of the complete MU5 complex is presented together with a brief indication of its performance. ... A description is then given of the instruction set, which includes a number of features conducive to the production of efficient compiled code from high-level language source programs.

CACM-2670
Efficient Implementation of a Variable Projection Algorithm for Nonlinear Least Squares Problems Nonlinear least squares frequently arise for which the variables to be solved for can be separated into a linear and a nonlinear part. ... A variable projection algorithm has been developed recently which is designed to take advantage of the structure of a problem whose variables separate in this way.

CACM-1615
Time-lag diagrams, which had been impossible to obtain, are drawn with the same speed and accuracy as ordinary diagrams. ... Ordinary diagrams are drawn much faster and more accurately than ever before.

CACM-3038
Using Encryption for Authentication in Large Networks of Computers Use of encryption to achieve authenticated communication in computer networks is discussed. ... Example protocols are presented for the establishment of authenticated connections, for the management of authenticated mail, and for signature verification and document integrity guarantee.

CACM-1173
This discussion concludes with an assessment of the potential gains of various ways of improving the system. ... The logic of this system is described.

CACM-1402
This method of obtaining functional values at points intermediate to the integration points yields accuracy comparable to the integration and does not require storing of additional information as in interpolation methods. ... Partial Step Integration A partial step integration equation is derived for use with the Adams or Adams-Bashforth method of integration of differential equations.

CACM-2843
These allow the instructor to augment the basic concepts with relevant, exciting, and economical student project activities. ... The tools include programs such as simulators, graders, compilers, and monitor.

CACM-1515
A Computer System for Inference Execution and Data Retrieval This paper presents a RAND project concerned with the use of computers as assistants in the logical analysis of large collections of factual data. ... The Relational Data File is briefly detailed and problems arising from its implementation are discussed.

CACM-2082
A small PL 360 program, already found in the literature, is worked out as an example. ... Syntax-Directed Documentation For PL 360 The language PL 360, together with its phrase structure grammar, is used as a concrete basis for illustrating an idea called syntax-directed documentation.

CACM-2302
Technology affects the individual worker, in the nature and amount of his work, and in his attitudes toward that work. ... Even within a single discipline, studies are often contradictory, and conclusions are colored by political overtones.

CACM-1529
Decomposition Programming An Analysis of Matrix Substructure  A petroleum blending problem was analyzed in order to compare the primal and primal-dual decomposition algorithms. ... In the course of the analysis, a substructure was discovered which has relevance to the relative performance of the two algorithms and to their absolute performance as compared with a standard primal-Simplex solution without decomposition.

CACM-2211
Scanned-Display Computer Graphics A television-like scanned-display system has been successfully implemented on a Honeywell DDP-224 computer installation. ... The scanned image is stored in the core memory of the computer, and software scan conversion is used to convert the rectangular coordinates of a point to the appropriate word and bit in an output display array in core storage.

CACM-3070
In an example based on a simple hypothetical computer system, discrete-event simulation is used to model the arrival and activation of jobs, and a central-server queueing network models the use of system processors. ... The accuracy and efficiency of the hybrid technique are demonstrated by comparing the result and computational costs of the hybrid model of the example with those of an equivalent simulation-only model.

CACM-0851
Design and Characteristics of a Variable-Length Record Sort Using New Fixed-Length Record Sorting Techniques This paper describes the application of several new techniques for sorting fixed-length records to the problems of variable-length record sorting. ... Specifically, the techniques sequence variable-length records of unrestricted size, produce long initial strings of data, merge strings of data at the power of T-1, where T is the number of work tapes in a system, and do not restrict the volume of input data.

CACM-2634
Among those most widely available are OSIRIS, SPSS, BMD, DATA-TEXT, and TSAR. ... In order to provide users with a basis for selection and use, tests were made for each of these systems, and the results are summarized as to cost and performance.

CACM-2469
Petri Nets and Speed Independent design Petri nets are investigated as one method of modeling speed independent asynchronous circuits. ... A study of circuit realizations of Petri nets leads to a demonstration of their usefulness in modeling speed independent operation.

CACM-2523
The method has been applied to the construction of cloud cover maps from cloud cover pictures obtained by satellites. ... The resulting map is cleaned by comparing the region colors with the textures of the corresponding regions in the picture, and also by merging some regions with others according to criteria based on topology and size.

CACM-2114
Two algorithms which retrieve records from the generalized file structure are presented. ... A Formal System for Information Retrieval from Files A generalized file structure is provided by which the concepts of keyword, index, record, file, directory, file structure, directory decoding, and record retrieval are defined and from which some of the frequently used file structures such as inverted files, index-sequential files, and multilist files are derived.

CACM-3109
The primitive operations are insertion, deletion, union, update, and search for an item of earliest priority. ... A Data Structure for Manipulating Priority Queues A data structure is described which can be used for representing a collection of priority queues.

CACM-2937
Analysis of the number of errors and the number of runs containing errors shows that, at least in one environment, the use of a statically typed language can increase programming reliability. ... An Experimental Evaluation of Data Type Conventions The language in which programs are written can have a substantial effect on the reliability of the resulting programs.

CACM-2374
By means of this model dynamic storage partitioning is shown to provide substantial increases in storage utilization and operating efficiency over fixed partitioning. ... Experiments justifying this model are described.

CACM-1937
Data is displayed as tables and graphs produced in a format ready for publication. ... The command language of the system provides the user with an easy means for specifying data retrieval and display requests.

CACM-2017
The insight gained from the experimental effort is used to arrive at a set of broad guidelines for writing sort programs for a paging environment. ... Sorting in a Paging Environment This sorting study was part of an extensive measurement project undertaken on the M44/44X, an experimental paging system which was conceived and implemented at IBM Research in order to explore the virtual machine concept.

CACM-2353
The equation is treated as a system of two second order equations and a simple smoothing process is essential for convergence. ... Fast Finite-Difference Solution of Biharmonic Problems Setting the Reynolds number equal to zero, in a method for solving the Navier-Strokes equations numerically, results in a fast numerical method for biharmonic problems.

CACM-0095
This is practical if these functions satisfy sufficiently simple differential equations. ... Elimination of Special Functions from Differential Equations A set of ordinary differential equations which contains mathematical functions requiring the use of subroutines for numerical solution by electronic computer, tabular data for numerical solution by hand calculation or function generators when analog methods are applied can sometimes be expanded to an equivalent set of equations which do not contain the functions.

CACM-1518
This paper reports on the applicability of that technique to System/360. ... An auxiliary programs, the Job Generator, creates automatically the properties of System/360 jobs that get simulated.

CACM-1792
Methodological problems encountered in designing and conducting these experiments are described; limitations of the findings are pointed out; hypotheses are presented to account for results; and suggestions are made for further research. ... Statistically significant results of both experiments indicated faster debugging under online conditions, but perhaps the most important practical finding involves the striking individual differences in programmer performance.

CACM-0205
In particular, conditional assembly, nested definitions, and parenthetical notation serve to make a compiler capable of accepting very general extensions to its ground language. ... Macro Instruction Extensions of Compiler Languages Macroinstruction compilers constructed from a small set of functions can be made extremely powerful.

CACM-1989
Structure-building actions associated with the arcs of the grammar network allow for the reordering, restructuring, and copying of constituents necessary to produce deep-structure representations of the type normally obtained from a transformational analysis, and conditions on the arcs allow for a powerful selectivity which can rule out meaningless analyses and take advantage of semantic information to guide the parsing. ... The advantage of this model for natural language analysis are discussed in detail and illustrated by examples.

CACM-1182
The shapes of the functions, however, indicate that similarity of context is reliable as criterion only for detecting pairs of words that are very similar in meaning. ... Contextual Correlates of Synonymy Experimental corroboration was obtained for the hypothesis that the proportion of words common to the contexts of word A and to the contexts of word B is a function of the degree to which A and B are similar in meaning.

CACM-1233
Conventions for the Use of Symbols in the Preparation of Flowcharts for Information Processing Systems (A Standard Working Paper) This paper is intended as an outline of the various conventions which are being considered for the use of flowcharts for information processing systems. ... The conventions are applied to the use of the symbols appearing in the proposed American Standard Flowchart Symbols and not with the symbols per se.

CACM-1601
The s8everal approximations obtained in any iteration are computationally independent, making the methods of interest in a parallel processing environment. ... These measurements are interpreted in a parallel processing environment.

CACM-1394
Limitations of the present system and future plans are also outlined. ... The manner in which these problems are encountered is outlined, and their representation in the computer discussed.

CACM-2554
The calculation C requires order mn^2 operation. ... The algorithm is similar to those of Rutishauser and Schwartz for the reduction of symmetric matrices to band form.

CACM-3078
Analysis of the Availability of Computer Systems Using Computer- Aided Algebra Analytical results, related to the availability of a computer system constructed of unreliable processors, are presented in this paper. ... A major purpose of this paper is to demonstrate that the difficulties of obtaining analytical solutions to Markov processes can be considerably reduced by the application of symbol manipulation programs.

CACM-2365
Such modifications produce modest savings in many common situations and very significant savings for large problems run under an operating system which uses paging. ... Matrix Computations with Fortran and Paging The efficiency of conventional Fortran programs for matrix computations can often be improved by reversing the order of nested loops.

CACM-1045
The operator calculus and the mapping scheme are described in detail. ... Programming Analysis of Variance by Sequences of Operators and Isomorphic Mappings A special operator calculus developed by Hartley in 1956 together with a new mapping scheme has been found to be efficient in programming analysis of variance for multifactor experiments.

CACM-1900
Since that initial achievement, study and application of the standard specifications have revealed the need for maintenance of the standards. ... The nature of the maintenance, corrections to the standard specifications, and completed interpretations are reported.

CACM-2776
Five major and 18 minor networks were identified. ... Finally, recommendations are advanced regarding the development of networks in higher education in the future.

CACM-1673
Approximate Solution of Initial Boundary Wave Equation Problems by Boundary-Value Techniques A new boundary-value technique is proposed for the treatment of initial-boundary-value problems for linear and mildly nonlinear wave equations. ... Several illustrative examples are offered to demonstrate the ease with which the method can be applied.

CACM-1198
Solution of a Problem in Concurrent Programming Control A number of mainly independent sequential-cyclic processes with restricted means of communication with each other can be made in such a way that at any moment one and only one of them is engaged in the "critical section" of its cycle.

CACM-2674
A display has been described which extends the capabilities of this organization to include general graphics. ... The interactive algorithm can improve response time and reduce storage requirements.

CACM-1028
The technique is shown to be both accurate and easy to apply, though certain indicated modifications are required. ... Investigation of a New Analytical Method for Numerical Derivative Evaluation A recently proposed analytical approach to numerical derivative evaluation is discussed.

CACM-2556
A final section surveys further principles which are currently being investigated. ... This method involves principles at present mainly confined to studies in the area of artificial intelligence such as feature extraction, approximate tree matching, and strategy improvement by feedback from the matching process.

CACM-2894
A demonstration of the methodology, leading to a pragmatic figure-of-merit evaluation of results, is included. ... The NBS Network Measurement System is employed as the external measurement tool.

CACM-2633
Compact Representation of Contour Plots for Phone Line Transmission Methods for the compact representation of contour plots are described and tested. ... We feel some of these methods could be used to transmit contour plots over voice grade phone lines.

CACM-1808
Special emphasis is paid to the unique characteristics of computer files that make many cryptographic methods of little use. ... Advanced Cryptographic Techniques for Computers Cryptographic techniques which can be used to maintain the confidentiality of information processed by computers are dealt with.

CACM-0850
The internal record formats are discussed in relation to (1) their conversion from input formats, (2) their reconversion to output formats, and (3) comparison techniques between internal formats. ... Conversion, Reconversion and Comparison Techniques In Variable-Length Sorting The logic is described for converting highly variable input records into a format that can be easily and efficiently processed by a sorting program.

CACM-2603
The Equivalence of Reducing Transition Languages and Deterministic Languages The class of reducing transition languages introduced by Eickel, Paul, Bauer, and Samelson was shown by Morris to be a proper superclass of the simple precedence languages. ... In this paper this result is extended, showing that, in fact, the first class is equivalent to the class of deterministic context free languages.

CACM-0464
The output consists of a trace table that expresses the results of the syntactic analysis in a tabular form. ... Several versions of the subroutine and some associated programs have been in use now for over three years.

CACM-1603
User programs communicate with the monitor through a small set of meta-instruction which consists mostly of machine-language subroutine calls. ... The simple hardware additions provide a uniform device to machine interface for such elements as keyboards graphic input devices, and interval timers.

CACM-3058
Multiple level and variable size jump strategies are explored, appropriate applications are discussed and performance is evaluated. ... Jump Searching: A Fast Sequential Search Technique When sequential file structures must be used and binary searching is not feasible, jump searching becomes an appealing alternative.

CACM-3196
If the machine is restricted to only a single case, the lower case is preferred. ... The Reactive Typewriter Program   84-character keyboard including alphabetical upper and lower case for good readability.

CACM-1719
Real-time data processing systems as typified by the automated airline reservation system are discussed in this paper. ... A Methodology for Calculating and Optimizing Real-Time System Performance The continually increasing size, complexity, number of types, and cost of data processing systems are causing serious re-examination within government and industry of the criteria for and methods of calculating and optimizing data processing system cost and performance.

CACM-1735
This auction is free of the periodic fluctuation in computer use often associated with monthly time allocation schemes. ... A Futures Market in Computer time An auction method is described for allocating computer time that allows the price of computer time to fluctuate with the demand and the relative priority of users to be controlled so that more important projects get better access.

CACM-2805
The bounds which are derived are shown to be almost attainable for any set of matrices. ... Perturbations of Eigenvalues of Non-normal Matrices The problem considered is to give bounds for finite perturbations of simple and multiple eigenvalues of nonnormal matrices, where these bounds are in terms of the eigenvalues, the departure from normality, and the Frobenius norm of the perturbation matrix, but not in terms of the eigen system.

CACM-2906
The concepts in BDL mimic those which have evolved through the years in businesses using manual methods. ... This results in three different sublanguages or components: one for defining the business forms, one for describing the business organization, and one for writing calculations.

CACM-2923
The need for high-level flow analysis arises from several aspects of recent work on advanced methods of program certification and optimization. ... High-Level Data Flow Analysis In contrast to the predominant use of low-level in termediate text, high-level data flow analysis deals with programs essentially at source level and exploits the control flow information implicit in the parse tree.

CACM-2991
The keys are pre-hashed before the address division, to remove the effect of sequential properties in the key set. ... Improving the Access Time for Random Access Files Clustering in the key set is decreased by smoothing the key-to-address transformation, and by adding shadow buckets to an open chaining file.

CACM-2253
The paper is therefore preoccupied with "indexing by position. ... Index Ranges for Matrix Calculi The paper describes a scheme for symbolic manipulation of index expressions which arise as a by-product of the symbolic manipulation of expressions in the matrix calculi described by the authors in a previous paper.

CACM-0104
The principal portion of the paper is a discussion of two simulation studies that illustrate some of the programming problems involved. ... One is of an extensive package-handling plant, with the objective being optimization of parameters such as storage capacities and processing rates.

CACM-2997
Convex Hulls of Finite Sets of Poin ts in Two and Three Dimensions The convex hulls of sets of n poin ts in two and three dimensions can be determined with O(n log n) operations. ... Since any convex hull algorithm requires at least O(n log n) operations, the time complexity of the proposed algorithms is optimal within a multiplicative constant.

CACM-1554
The observed projections and their motions were a direct extension of three-dimensional experience, but no profound "feeling" or insight into the fourth spatial dimension was obtained. ... The technique can be generalized to n-dimensions and applied to any n-dimensional hyperobject or hypersurface.

CACM-2546
The Use of Grammatical Inference for Designing Programming Languages Both in designing a new programming language and in extending an existing language, the designer is faced with the problem of deriving a "natural" grammar for the language. ... The algorithm then constructs a grammar which is a reasonable generalization of the examples submitted by the designer.

CACM-2621
We discuss the selection of a suitable one-way cipher and suggest that for this purpose polynomials over a prime modulus are superior to one-way ciphers derived from Sannon codes. ... By using one-way ciphers to code the passwords, the risks involved with storing the passwords in the computer can be avoided.

CACM-1871
Automatic Contour Map Some methods for contour mapping by means of a digital plotter are discussed, and a new method is presented that is simple enough to be implemented by programs with a rather small number of instructions (about 120 FORTRAN IV instructions are required). ... Comparisons with some methods proposed by other authors are also performed, A FORTRAN IV program implementing the proposed method is available at the Istituto di Elettrotecnica ed Elettronica, Politencnico di Milano.

CACM-1252
Symbolic Notations for Statistical Tables and an Approach Towards Automatic System Design The preparation of statistical tables is an important function of the data processing systems of some organizations, and a symbolic notation for the description of tables has been shown to be a useful aid to documentation. ... Such a notation also provides the first step towards making automatic a tedious and time-consuming part of system design and programming in many computer applications.

CACM-1108
The data processing portion of the system is presented in detail and then described in general are the operation of the tracker head assembly for data readout, the operation of the entire system and the effect data processing considerations have on the design of the tracker system. ... Digital Data Processor for Tracking the Partially Illuminated Moon* A study of lunar tracking techniques and fabrication of a breadboard to assess the feasibility of the best technique selected was conducted to define a tracking system for observation of the sight line to the center of a partially illuminated moon.

CACM-1010
Implementation is described for a small-scale multiuser computer system that permits several users to work independently with the machine, and to obtain satisfactory response using typewriter communication. ... A Multiuser Computation Facility for Education and Research Present-day computing facilities are limited in their value for scientific research by inability to interact strongly with users.

CACM-1258
In discussing the general problems associated with the design of an extended arithmetic package, specific reference is made to this program. ... Such a package was coded for the IBM 7090.

CACM-2471
A Learning Program Which Plays Partnership Dominoes A learning program has been written is BASIC to play four-player partnership dominoes. ... Because dominoes is a game of incomplete information, the program uses somewhat different principles of artificial intelligence from those used in programs for games of complete information, such as checkers, chess, and go.

CACM-1505
A System Organization for Resource Allocation  This paper introduces a system for resource management using the concepts of "process," facility," and "event. ... The paper is divided into a tutorial presentation, a description of the system primitives, and a small collection of examples of the use of the primitives.

CACM-2356
The main goal is to provide specifications sufficiently precise and complete that other pieces of software can be written to interact with the piece specified without additional information. ... A Technique for Software Module Specification with Examples This paper presents an approach to writing specifications for parts of software systems.

CACM-1188
The purposes and requirements of the design language are enumerated. ... The design language is presented in terms of vocabulary, statements, sequences and microprogram.

CACM-1049
Quite apart from questions of reality and uniqueness, there is no established numerical technique for this problem. ... Numerical Solution of Nonlinear Two-Point Boundary Problems by Finite Difference Methods Solution of nonlinear two-point boundary-value problems is often an extremely difficult task.

CACM-2263
Both algorithms are compared with existing ones and are applied to a somewhat large decision table derived from a real case. ... One of the algorithms, called the optimum-finding algorithm, leads to a flowchart which truly minimizes execution time for a decision table in which simple rules are already contracted to complex rules.

CACM-1196
This is true from the point of view of ease of programming, ease of debugging, and minimization of computer time. ... A good general purpose routine for the solution of such systems furnishes a powerful tool for processing many problems.

CACM-0533
The need for such a technique often arises in testing the performance of data processing and engineering systems, where inputs corrupted with correlated noise (of a known form) are required. ... The method consists of approximating the spectral density by a periodic process with spectral lines, and then synthesizing the periodic noise with random phases and appropriate amplitudes.

CACM-1679
A Fast Fourier Transform Algorithm for Real-Valued Series A new procedure is presented for calculating the complex, discrete Fourier transform of real-valued time series. ... Also discussed are hardware and software implementations of the algorithm which perform only (N/4) log2 (N/2) complex multiply and add operations, and which require only N real storage locations in analyzing each N-point record.

CACM-2494
A well-known set of data consisting of the correlations of 24 psychological tests is used to illustrate the comparison of groupings by four methods of factor analysis and two methods of cluster analysis. ... The plots, applied to a data matrix before clustering and to the rearranged matrix after clustering, show at a glance whether clustering brought forth any distinctive clusters.

CACM-1359
The processing mechanics associated with data string manipulation is developed in accordance with a generalized data filtering concept. ... Each data string with the structured data environment (data bank) is explicitly or implicitly related to a format declaration residing in a format library.

CACM-3087
The language processing portion of the system uses a number of augmented transition networks, each of which matches phrases with a specific meaning, along with context registers (his tory keepers) and concept case frames; these are used for judging meaningfulness of questions, generating dialogue for clarifying partially understood questions, and resolving ellipsis and pronoun reference problems. ... The design and implementation of this system is described and illustrated with detailed examples of the operation of system components and examples of overall system operation.

CACM-1517
Methods for Analyzing Data from Computer Simulation Experiments This paper addresses itself to the problem of analyzing data generated by computer simulations of economic systems. ... We illustrate, compare, and evaluate these techniques.

CACM-1315
Purchased radioisotopes are reported in millicuries; reactor-created radioisotopes in microcuries. ... The program for purchased radioisotopes is written in FORMAT FORTRAN for the IBM 1620 Computer.

CACM-2598
The analogy between the two problems is also used to develop improvements to the information algorithm in extending the depth of search under certain conditions and in proposing additional conditions to be added to the decision table. ... The results of the noiseless coding literature are used to explore the limitations of algorithms used to solve the decision table problem.

CACM-2370
Watson Research Center for three years. ... The system includes two flying-spot scanners and a TV camera specially interfaced to a process control digital computer, dot-mode and vector displays, analog input and output facilities, and a variety of other experimental equipment.

CACM-2476
Equivalence Between AND/OR Graphs and Context-Free Grammars.

CACM-2803
Pseudoinverses and Conjugate Gradients This paper is devoted to the study of connections between pseudoinverses of matrices and conjugate gradients and conjugate direction routines.

CACM-0633
Simulation and Analysis of Biochemical Systems (III. ... Analysis and Pattern Recognition).

CACM-0168
Multiprogram Scheduling Parts 3 and 4 Scheduling Algorithm and External Constraints.

CACM-1016
Interchangcable Perforated Tape Variable Block Formats for Positioning and Straight Cut (RS-273) and Contouring and Contouring/Positioning (RS-274) Numerically Controlled Machine Tools (Proposed American Standards).

CACM-2399
Applications, potential economy of operation, and some aspects of implementation are discussed. ... The program operates from low-cost cathode-ray tube entry and display stations with keyboard and 13 function buttons.

CACM-1053
Design and Implementation of a General-Purpose Input Routine A general-purpose input routine is discussed and advocated for FORTRAN. ... The philosophy of such programs is examined and exemplified.

CACM-1251
American Standard and IFIP/ICC Vocabularies compared The "Proposed American Standard Vocabulary of Information Processing" and the "IFIP/ICC Vocabulary of Terms Used in Information Processing" are analyzed and compared.

CACM-3143
The basic concepts include intervals and their partitions, functional restriction, images, pointwise extension of relations, ordering, single-point variation of functions, various equivalence relations for array values, and concatenation. ... The effectiveness of these ideas is illustrated by informal descriptions of algorithms for binary search and merging, and by a short formal proof.

CACM-1396
General systems-both batch and online-are described. ... Finally, some programs to solve specific applications are discussed.

CACM-2842
The Denotational Semantics of Programming Languages This paper is a tutorial introduction to the theory of programming language semantics developed by D. ... Scott and C.

CACM-0694
A Comparison of Disks and Tapes The principal characteristics of current magnetic disks and tape units are summarized and compared. ... Some of the characteristics of disk files are illustrated in a sorting example and compared to a tapesort.

CACM-2874
A Comparative Evaluation of Versions of BASIC From its inception, The BASIC language has grown in terms of its usage, scope of usage, and its features. ... This article compares ten of the current versions of BASIC with each other, with two earlier versions, and with the proposed standard for minimal BASIC.

CACM-0980
Multiple-Precision Arithmetic and the Exact Calculation of the 3-j, 6-j and 9-j Symbols Described in this paper is a system of general-purpose multiple-precision fixed-point routines and their use in subroutines which calculate exactly the quantum-mechanical 3-j, 6-j and 9-j symbols of large arguments.

CACM-0618
Computers- The Key to Total Systems Control: An Industrial Viewpoint Man-Man-machine processes are characterized in five main types, and the markets for each type are shown for 1950 and 1960 and estimated for 1970.

CACM-1696
Applications in Markov renewal programming and in the construction of variable length codes are reviewed, and an updating procedure for dealing with certain sequences of stochastic matrices is discussed. ... Computation times are investigated experimentally and compared with those of another recently propose method.

CACM-0860
The basis for the comparison is the total reading and writing required for various number of input strings and tape drives for the two techniques. ... A Comparison Between the Polyphase and Oscillating Sort Techniques A comparison between the Oscillating and Polyphase Sort techniques is developed for computer systems having from four to ten tape drives.

CACM-2823
The Status of Women and Minorities in Academic Computer Science The results of a survey concerning women and minority students and faculty in computer science during the years 1971 to 1975 are presented. ... Analysis of the data indicated that effective affirmative action programs for recruitment into graduate degree programs are needed to enlarge the number of women and minorities qualified for later employment in computer science.

CACM-1970
Unrecorded Magnetic Tape for Information Interchange (9 Track-200 and 800 CPI, NRZI and 1600 CPI, PE)* (Proposed American National Standard).

CACM-2272
Extensive simulation results are presented, and various implications and further applications are discussed. ... Sorting by Natural Selection A family of sorting algorithms is proposed, the members of which make fuller use of the memory space and thus yield longer sorted strings.

CACM-1717
Generating Prime Implicants Via Ternary Encoding and Decimal Arithmetic Decimal arithmetic, ternary encoding of cubes, and topological considerations are used in an algorithm to obtain the extremals and prime implicants of Boolean functions. ... The algorithm, which has been programmed in the FORTRAN language, generally requires less memory than other minimization procedures, and treats DON'T CARE terms in an efficient manner.

CACM-2111
Spelling Correction in Systems Programs Several specialized techniques are shown for efficiently incorporating spelling correction algorithms in to compilers and operating systems. ... Sample 360 coding for performing spelling correction is presented.

CACM-1224
Determining a Computing Center Environment An investigation is described in which several generally unavailable parameters descriptive of a computing center environment are obtained. ... The actual data collection and reduction is described, and the results of one month of this collection are tabulated and summarized.

CACM-1312
Recursion and Iteration.

CACM-1107
Computers and Education.

CACM-0602
COBOL and Compatibility.

CACM-2812
There are four major components: Problem Statement Language, Problem Statement Analyzer, Generator of Alternative Designs, and Performance Evaluator. ... The ADS problem definition was supplemented with additional information in order to create a complete problem definition.

CACM-0265
multi-precision arithmetic), symbol manipulation, bit manipulation and expanded character set input-output, and visual display. ... g.

CACM-0914
Jovial and Its Documentation.

CACM-2651
The EL1 language contains a number of features specifically designed to simultaneously satisfy both requirements. ... The resulting treatment of data types includes provision for programmer-defined data types data types and generic routines, programmer control over type conversion, and very flexible data type behavior, in a context that allows efficient compiled code and compact data representation.

CACM-0813
Differences and Derivatives (Algorithm 187).

CACM-0412
Recursive Processes and ALGOL Translation.

CACM-0057
J. ... and Its Computer Center.

CACM-2782
A Reply to Gentleman and Marovich.

CACM-0775
Interpolation, Differentiation, and Integration (Algorithm 77).

CACM-0684
Interpolation, Differentiation, and Integration (Algorithm 77).

CACM-0657
Information Structures for Processing and Retrieving.

CACM-0641
Interpolation, Differentiation, and Integration (Algorithm 77).

CACM-0238
Simulation and Analysis of Biochemical Systems.

CACM-0207
Syntactic and Semantic Augments to ALGOL.

CACM-2126
Experience with an Extensible Language An operational extensible language system is described. ... The system and its base language are appraised with respect to efficiency, flexibility, and utility for different categories of users.

CACM-2386
Dynamic Microprogramming: Processor Organization and Programming (Corrigendum).

CACM-1795
Optimal Code for Serial and Parallel Computation.

CACM-1546
Toward Standards for Handwritten Zero and Oh.

CACM-1447
Abscissas and Weights for Gregory Quadrature [D1]).

CACM-1091
Hypergeometric and Confluent Hypergeometric (Algorithm 191 & 192).

CACM-0896
Characteristic Values and Vectors of Defective Matrices.

CACM-0845
Another Test Matrix for Determinants and Inverses.

CACM-0786
Adaptive Integration and Multiple Integration (Algorithm 198).

CACM-0529
Regression and Coded Patterns in Data Editing.

CACM-0454
Crout with Equilibration and Iteration (Algorithm 135).

CACM-0442
Crout with Equilibration and Iteration (Algorithm 135).

CACM-0049
Scientific and Business Applications (Oracle Curve Plotter).

CACM-0019
Glossary of Computer Engineering and Programming Terminology.

CACM-0013
Glossary of Computer Engineering and Programming Terminology.

CACM-0010
Glossary of Computer Engineering and Programming Terminology.

CACM-0007
Glossary of Computer Engineering and Programming Terminology.

CACM-0004
Glossary of Computer Engineering and Programming Terminology.

CACM-1959
The bases for this organization are a generalized interrupt structure and the newly introduced concept of "file tagging," which is the process of associating program structures and interrupt generating conditions with items in the data base. ... An algorithm for resolving conflicts which arise in scheduling the interrupt processing routines is presented.

CACM-1034
Autosate An automated data system analysis technique is described. ... The technique is designed to alleviate some of the principal problems that beset current analysis-large data workloads, long span of time between project inception and system operational date, the lack of explicit directions for conducting data system analysis and using the results, and the lack of a technique to control data system changes throughout its lifetime.

CACM-1541
The ability to represent systems containing highly interactive processes is an essential feature. ... A Language for Modeling and Simulating Dynamic Systems The general objective of this language is to facilitate both the modeling and experimental aspects of simulation studies.

CACM-3192
The Lincoln Keyboard - a Typewriter Keyboard Designed for Computers Input Flexibility   A new typewriter keyboard, for direct and punched paper tape computer input will replace the usual commercial keyboard with 88 characters chosen for the convenience of programmers. ... The Lincoln Keyboard is expected to facilitate the programming of algorithmic process and should allow considerable flexibility in assembly and utility routines.

CACM-1344
Fixes, mixed, and random analysis of variance models are considered. ... A procedure for obtaining variance components and calculated F statistics for the model terms is included.

CACM-1263
Metalanguage and Syntax Specification Two metalanguages are described, one sufficient for the table specification of the ALGOL syntax, the other with additional metaoperators adequate and used for the formal table description of Basic FORTRAN.

CACM-0822
The problems delineated also occur in systems programming. ... Real-Time Programming Specifications Problems in the implementation of large real-time applications are treated, and suggested guidelines for both program and file specifications are developed.

CACM-2995
Decomposability, Instabilities, and Saturation in Multiprogramming Systems (Corrigendum).

CACM-2662
Glut: Response and Rebuttal. ... Graduate Education: The Ph.

CACM-2504
Concerning Music and Computer Composition in Computational Linguistics.

CACM-2271
Aesthetics and the Human Factor in Programming (Corrigendum).

CACM-2014
Function Minimization and Linear Search $E4) (Algorithm 387).

CACM-1949
Finiteness Assumptions and Intellectual Isolation of Computer Scientists.

CACM-1319
Crout with Equilibration and Iteration (Algorithm 135 [F4]).

CACM-1038
Crout with Equilibration and Iteration (Algorithm 135 [F4]).

CACM-0959
Mark Sense and Port-A-Punch Programming Inputs.

CACM-0800
The Linking Segment Subprogram Language and Linking Loader.

CACM-0776
Partition, Quicksort, and Find (Algorithm 62, 64, & 65).

CACM-0660
More Test Matrices for Determinants and Inverses (Pracnique).

CACM-0365
Bessel Functions of Integral Order and Complex Argument.

CACM-1947
Dominance relationships, indicating which statements are necessarily executed before others, are used to do global common expression elimination and loop identification. ... Object code Optimization Methods of analyzing the control flow and data flow of programs during compilation are applied to transforming the program to improve object time efficiency.

CACM-2825
The BMD and BMDP Series of Statistical Computer Programs.

CACM-2608
Recurrence Relations for the Fresnel Integral and Similar Integrals.

CACM-2505
Reflection-Free Permutations, Rosary Permutations, and Adjacent Transposition Algorithms.

CACM-1903
Chebyshev Interpolation and Quadrature Formulas of Very High Degree.

CACM-1662
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of a Real General Matrix [F2]).

CACM-1448
Abscissas and Weights for Romberg Quadrature (Algorithm 281 [D1]).

CACM-1337
EULER: A Generalization of ALGOL, and its Formal Definition.

CACM-1100
Status of Computer Sciences Curricula in Colleges and Universities.

CACM-0651
A Survey of Languages and Systems for Information Retrieval.

CACM-0493
The Property Classification Method of File Design and Processing.

CACM-0378
A Generalized Technique for Symbol Manipulation and Numerical Calculation.

CACM-3045
No attempt to repair errors is made, yet parsing and most semantic processing can continue. ... The result is a good "first approximation" to syntax error handling with negligible increase in parsing time, space, and complexity of both the parser and its table generator.

CACM-0405
A method is described which reduces the number of store and fetch operations, evaluates constant subexpressions during compilation, and recognizes many equivalent subexpressions. ... An Algorithm for Coding Efficient Arithmetic Operations Most existing formula translation schemes yield inefficient coding.

CACM-2983
A Comparison of Next-fit, First-fit, and Best-fit.

CACM-2520
Greatest Common Divisor of n Integers and Multipliers (Algorithm C386).

CACM-2335
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of a Real General matrix (Algorithm R343).

CACM-1872
Chebyshev Interpolation and Quadrature Formulas of Very High Degree (Errata).

CACM-1617
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of the Symmetric System (Algorithm 297 [F2]).

CACM-0988
History and Summary of FORTRAN Standardization Development for the ASA.

CACM-0785
Conversions Between Calendar Date And Julian day Number (Algorithm 199).

CACM-0658
Discussion-The Pros and Cons of a Special IR Language.

CACM-0586
Simultaneous System of Equations and Matrix Inversion Routine (Algorithm 92).

CACM-0334
Division and Square Root in the Quater-Imaginary Number System.

CACM-0331
Successive Approximations and Computer Storage Problems in Ordinary Differential Equations.

CACM-0295
Rational Approximations for the Error Function and for Similar Functions.

CACM-0133
Riccati-Bessel Functions of First And Second Kind (Algorithm 22).

CACM-1503
The comparison of these differently designed programs shows that the SIMSCRIPT program uses more computer storage and more computer time, but requires fewer program changes to introduce model revisions. ... In the FORTRAN program, basic design problems relate to the representation of the passage of time, the allocation of storage, and the organization of input data.

CACM-1392
Concrete examples are provided by the FORMAC EXPAND and differentiation algorithms, a basic FORMAC utility routine, and an experiment in the extraction of the skeletal structure of an expression. ... One recurrent theme is the need to avoid excessive intermediate expression swell in order to minimize core storage requirements.

CACM-2675
A Computer Routine for Quadratic and Linear Programming Problems (Algorithm R431).

CACM-2615
Procedures for computing Smoothing and Interpolating Natural Splines [E1] (Algorithm A480).

CACM-2589
A Computer Routine for Quadratic and Linear Programming Problems (Algorithm R431).

CACM-2250
Computer Methods for Sampling from the Exponential and Normal Distributions (Corrigendum).

CACM-2161
An Algorithm for the Blocks and Cutnodes of a Graph (Corrigendum).

CACM-2043
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of a Real Symmetric Matrix $F2) (Algorithm 384).

CACM-2028
Greatest Common Divisor of n Integers and Multipliers $A1) (Algorithm 386).

CACM-2027
Ricatti-Bessel Functions of First and Second Kind (Algorithm 22 $S17)).

CACM-1968
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of a Real General Matrix (Algorithm 343 $F1)).

CACM-1954
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of a Real Symmetric Matrix (Algorithm 384 $F2)).

CACM-1904
Rough and Ready Error Estimates in Gaussian Integration of Analytic Functions.

CACM-1477
EULER: A Generalization of ALGOL, and its Formal Definition: Part II*.

CACM-1275
Code Structures for Protection and Manipulation of Variable Length Items (Corrigendum).

CACM-1250
Graphic Symbols for Problem Definition and Analysis-A Standards Working Paper.

CACM-0977
Conversions Between Calendar Date and Julian Day Number (Algorithm 199 [Z]).

CACM-0643
Solution of Differential Equations). ... Simulation and Analysis of Biochemcial Systems (II.

CACM-0399
Compiling Techniques for Boolean Expressions and Conditional Statements in ALGOL 60.

CACM-0036
A Queue Network Simulator for the IBM 650 and Burroughs 220.

CACM-2892
Then the line efficiency for various models of system use is studied. ... Some measurements of line efficiency for the ARPANET are presented and by extrapolation these measurements are used to anticipate overhead in a heavily loaded network.

CACM-0070
Construction of a Set of Test Matrices This paper develops the equations and properties of a set of test matrices which are useful in the determination of the accuracy of routines for finding the inverse, determinant and/or eigenvalues of a matrix.

CACM-2099
Eigenvalues and Eigen vectors of a Real General Matrix (Algorithm 343 $F)).

CACM-1520
Absolute Value and Square Root of a Complex Number (Algorithm 312 [A2]).

CACM-1450
Simultaneous Displacement of Polynomial Roots if Real and Simple (Algorithm 283 [C2]).

CACM-1209
Negative and Zero Subscripts in Fortran II Programming for the IBM 1620.

CACM-1101
The Place of Logical Design and Switching Theory In The Computer Curriculum.

CACM-0792
Multiple-Precision Binary-To-Decimal Integer Conversion Using Only Addition And Subtraction.

CACM-2016
Where appropriate, insight into effectiveness (or lack there of) of individual tools is provided. ... The Instrumentation of Multics An array of measuring tools devised to aid in the implementation of a prototype computer utility is discussed.

CACM-1658
Computational experience is summarized. ... Computer experiments still provide little hope of solving problems with over 100 variables with a reasonable amount of machine time.

CACM-1471
The language sophistication contemplated is midway between an assembly language and an advanced algebraic language. ... These meta-instructions relate to parallel processing, protection of separate computations, program debugging, and the sharing among users of memory segments and other computing objects, the names of which are hierarchically structured.

CACM-2745
A Linear Space Algorithm for Computing Maximal Common Subsequences The problem of finding a longest common subsequence of two strings has been solved in quadratic time and space. ... An algorithm is presented which will solve this problem in quadratic time and in linear space.

CACM-2180
Both the organization and curriculum of the course are discussed. ... A Programmer Training Project A project is described whose purpose is to train selected black residents of the Albany-Schenectady area in computer programming and arrange for jobs for them in the computer field.

CACM-1893
Roots of Polynomials by a Root-Squaring and Resultant routine (Algorithm 340 [C2]).

CACM-1667
Roots of Polynomials by a Root-Squaring and Resultant Routine (Algorithm 340 [C2]).

CACM-0591
Evaluation of Asymptotic Expression for the Fresnel Sine and Cosine Integrals (Algorithm 88).

CACM-2626
The key mechanisms described include access control lists, hierarchical control of access specifications, identification and authentication of users, and primary memory protection. ... The paper ends with a discussion of several known weaknesses in the current protection mechanism design.

CACM-2834
Efficient Generation of the Binary Reflected Gray Code and Its Applications Algorithms are presented to generate the n-bit binary reflected Gray code and codewords of fixed weight in that code. ... Both algorithms are efficient in that the time required to generate the next element from the current one is constant.

CACM-3051
A Comparison of Heaps and the TL Structure for the SImulation Event Set None.

CACM-2533
))) Is Ordered. ... +-f(x).

CACM-1940
Calculation of a Polynomial and its Derivative Values by Horner Scheme (Algorithm 337 [C1]).

CACM-1689
Calculation of a Polynomial and its Derivative Values by Horner Scheme (Algorithm 337 [C1]).

CACM-1670
Correspondences of 8-Bit and Hollerith Codes for Computer Environments (A USASI Tutorial Standard).

CACM-0689
Report of a Visit to Discuss Common Programming Languages in Czechoslovakia and Poland, 1963.

CACM-2719
Mechanical Program Analysis One means of analyzing program performance is by deriving closed-form expressions for their execution behavior. ... This paper presents the reasons for mechanizing program analysis, describes the operation of Metric, explains its implementation, and discusses its limitations.

CACM-1860
The discussion includes a comparison with other work and examples of applications of the language. ... An Algol-Based Associative Language A high level programming language for large, complex associative structures has been designed and implemented.

CACM-2318
This paper examines the interrelationships between models and other methods for evaluating the performance of computer systems and establishes circumstances under which the use of a model is appropriate. ... The Role of Computer System Models in Performance Evaluation Models constitute a useful means of investigating computer system performance.

CACM-2149
ENTCAF and ENTCRE: Evaluation of Normalized Taylor Coefficients of an Analytic Function [C5] (Algorithm 413).

CACM-1577
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of a Real Symmetric Matrix by the QR Method (Algorithm 254 [F2]).

CACM-1285
Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors of a Real Symmetric Matrix by the QR Method (Algorithm 254 [F2]).

CACM-0975
The New Program of Work for the International Standard Vocabulary in Computers and Information Processing.

CACM-0406
The Use of Threaded Lists in Constructing a Combined ALGOL and Machine-Like Assembly Processor.

CACM-2644
Such extend ability will permit general experimentation with the various alternative systems. ... The use of this language permits easy extension of automated theorem-proving programs to include new strategies and/or new inference rules.

CACM-2032
Two types of such trees are examined, and their relation to trees studied in the past is explainedesults for the probability distributions of path lengths are derived and illustrated. ... File Structures Using Hashing Functions A general method of file structuring is proposed which uses a hashing function to define tree structure.

CACM-1948
Group theory programs range from simple combinatorial or numerical programs to large symbol manipulation systems. ... An extensive bibliography is included.

CACM-2601
Evaluation of the Modified Bessel Functions K0(Z) and K1(Z) for Complex Arguments [S17] (Algorithm A484).

CACM-1367
Character Structure and Character Parity Sense for Parallel-by-Bit Data Communication in ASCII* (Proposed American Standard).

CACM-1293
Method is Randomness  Certain nonrandom properties of a commonly used random number generator are described and analyzed.

CACM-1243
Testing the Understanding of the Difference Between Call by Name and Call by Value in ALGOL 60.

CACM-2604
In a conversational manner, a user can easily obtain different partitionings by specifying and modifying the boundary, the service centers' locations, the area proportions, and the cost functions. ... Examples are included.

CACM-1234
Block structure and recursion are handled without need for interpretive methods at run times. ... The Structure of Yet Another ALGOL Compiler A high-speed "top down" method of syntax analysis which completely eliminates "back-up" of the source string has been implemented in a convenient macro-language.

CACM-1163
Philco/IBM Translation at Problem-Oriented, Symbolic and Binary Levels A translation system has been developed to eliminate most of the effort formerly required to reprogram Philco 2000 series codes for IBM 7094 operation. ... Experience with this system is limited but highly successful encouraging application of the techniques to other source and object languages.

CACM-3089
The model is used to derive the principal performance measures, including availability, response time, and the system saturation point. ... Performance of Rollback Recovery Systems under Intermittent Failures A mathematical model of a transaction-oriented system under intermittent failures is proposed.

CACM-0058
LEM-1, Small Size General Purpose Digital Computer Using Magnetic (Ferrite) Elements The paper examines some of the questions of development and construction of a general purpose digital computer using contactless magnetic (ferrite) and capacitive "DEZU" (long duration capacitive memory) elements, developed at the Laboratory of Electrical Modeling VINITYI AN SSSR, under the supervision of Professor L. ... Gutenmacher.

CACM-3131
FOCUS Microcomputer Number System FOCUS is a number system and supporting computational algorithms especially useful for microcomputer control and other signal processing applications. ... FOCUS has the wide-ranging character of floating-point numbers with a uniformity of state distributions that give FOCUS better than a twofold accuracy advantage over an equal word length floating-point system.

CACM-1781
Various approaches to automating the post syntactic (semantic) aspects of translator writing are discussed in Section III, and several related topics in Section IV. ... The formal study of syntax and its application to translator writing are discussed in Section II.

CACM-3176
We propose a good worst-case method for storing a static table of n entries, each an integer between 0 and N - 1. ... Storing a Sparse Table The problem of storing and searching large sparse tables is ubiquitous in computer science.

CACM-1472
Description of a High Capacity, Fast Turnaround University Computing Center The operating system for the UNIVAC 1107 at Case Institute is reviewed. ... The system is of interest because of the low turnaround times achieved, the high throughput achieved and the lack of an operating staff.

CACM-1238
A Technique for Integrated Reports from a Multi-run System The requirements of a requisition accounting system for the San Francisco Overseas Supply Agency (OSA) included exception reporting to OSA itself. ... These two runs permitted a final system that was easier to debug, easy to maintain, efficient in production and responsive to the changing requirements of OSA.

CACM-0537
A Machine Program for Theorem-Proving The program of a proof procedure is discussed in connection with trial runs and possible improvements.

CACM-3145
The findings provide empirical support for incorporating structured walk-throughs into the programming learning process more effectively develop student proficiency in writing Cobol programs. ... Analysis of multiple covariance was used to statistically adjust test scores for age and conditional reasoning scores.

CACM-2165
Attention is drawn to the strictly algebraic difficulties encountered in this work. ... General Relativity and the Application of Algebraic Manipulative Systems The paper describes some applications of symbolic algebra systems to problems of general relativity including the derivation of the field equations, the Petrov classification of a metric, and the solution of the field equations in the presence of matter in a simple case.

CACM-1281
The computer converses with the user during the input process, checks for errors, provides standard data, and allows editing of values input. ... Instead of using format statements to determine the input, the computer asks the user for the required values one at a time.

CACM-1204
Character Structure and Character Parity Sense for Serial-by-Bit Data Communication in the American Standard Code for Information Interchange (Proposed American Standard).

CACM-2078
Four alternative data structures that allow automated space planning are described and compared. ... The representational requirements for this problem area are defined and compared with current computer graphic languages.

CACM-0768
Wolfson and H. ... L.

CACM-0661
Indexing and the Lambda-Notation Some methods of indexing sequentially stored elements of sparse multi-dimensional arrays are described in the scheme A notation.

CACM-0626
A Method of Representation, Storage and Retrieval of 13 Random Codes in a 4-Digit Number or 16 Random Codes in a 5-Digit Number.

CACM-1097
An Algorithm for Converting Integers from Base A to Base B A little known, simple algorithm for integer conversion between number systems is presented and proved.

CACM-1593
A Simple Technique for Digital Division A simple and economical method for digital division is described. ... The method is suitable for divisors whose leading character is either radix less one or is unity with the next character equal to zero; also the method is direct and needs only half the number of arithmetic operations needed by a variant of the Harvard iterative method, described by Gilman, which is suitable for similar divisors.

CACM-0828
The method is applicable to computer use. ... Incompressible flow Network Calculations A general method for the calculation of flows and pressures in fluid flow networks is presented.

CACM-2926
The performance of this strategy in an application is presented, compared with that of another strategy, and analyzed. ... Pagination of B*-Trees with Variable-Length Records A strategy is presented for pagination of B*-trees with variable-length records.

CACM-1304
A Rapid Turnaround Multi-Programming System In this paper, basic features, system characteristics and the control algorithm for a multi-programming system with rapid turnaround time are described.

CACM-3011
What exists is management-oriented computing, involving the use of relatively unsophisticated applications. ... Management computing is most prevalent in those governments with professional management practices where top management is supportive of computing and tends to control computing decisions and where department users have less control over design and implementation activities.

CACM-3100
Three tasks solved by a program that uses an interference-matching algorithm are presented. ... The proposed method, interference matching, induces abstractions by finding relational properties common to two or more exemplars.

CACM-1213
These format types give the FORTRAN programmer control of input/output specifications at execution time. ... Dynamic Format Specifications The use and implementation of two new FORTRAN format conversions are discussed.

CACM-2077
, 37 judges are reported. ... The Cyclical Majority Problem The problem of the cyclical majority is presented and some new, simulated results for 3, 4, 5,.

CACM-1152
Floating-Point Arithmetic with 84-Bit Numbers A classic and straightforward technique is presented which is not limited to the size or type of number representation used or multiple precision arithmetic.

CACM-1007
Extension of Existing Compilers By Sophisticated Use of Macros A description is presented of an application in which macros and string concatenation were employed to add a new facility to BELFAP.

CACM-1627
Application of Level Changing to a Multilevel Storage Organization A technique for organizing the devices of a computer storage system is described. ... This technique, called the multilevel store, provides a means for economically satisfying the requirements for very large storage capacities of certain data management and information retrieval systems.

CACM-0857
Sorting Nonredundant Files-Techniques Used in the FACT Compiler Some typical file structures, including some called "non-redundant," are examined,and the methods used in FACT to sort such files are discussed.

CACM-1254
The Iteration Element A recent addition to the MAD language has made the iteration structure of the MAD THROUGH statement (corresponding to the ALGOL for statement and the FORTRAN DO statement) available within expressions.

CACM-0767
Wolfson and H. ... Certification of Algorithm 161 Combinatorial of M Things Taken One at a Time, Two at a Time, Up to N at a Time [M.

CACM-2715
A version of SEQUEL that has been implemented in a prototype interpreter is described. ... SEQUEL is a relational data sublanguages intended for the ad hoc interactive problem solving by non-computer specialists.

CACM-2747
A Simplified Recombination Scheme for the Fibonacci Buddy System A simplified recombination scheme for the Fibonacci buddy system which requires neither tables nor repetitive calculations and uses only two additional bits per buffer is presented.

CACM-1858
An Algorithm for Filon Quadrature An algorithm for Filon quadrature is described. ... Considerable attention has been devoted to an analysis of the round-off and truncation errors.

CACM-1438
A Method for Locating Zeros of Complex Functions A method for computing the index, or winding number, is developed and applied to the problem of finding zeros of functions from the plane into the plane.

CACM-2366
The standard algorithm is modified in several respects to insure the continuity of the function value and to reduce accumulation of round-off errors. ... In addition to computation of function values, this algorithm includes an object-time estimation of round-off errors.

CACM-1347
General Time-Varying Systems Error Sensitivities Program The evaluation, by the propagation of variance technique, of the sensitivity of time-varying systems to initial condition and parameter errors, involves the determination of several system-dependent partial derivative matrices. ... This requirement has led to separate programs for each system under investigation.

CACM-2246
The design of the machine-independent language is the key factor in this operation. ... A popular way of accomplishing this is to encode the software in a specially designed machine-independent language and then to map this language, often using a macro processor, into the assembly language of each desired object machine.

CACM-1115
Randomized Binary Searching With Tree Structure A more efficient method of using tree structures is proposed, which utilizers both plus and minus branches in the search path. ... Very significant gains result when the search key includes alphabetic characters.

CACM-1114
Generating a Canonical Prefix Encoding* Computer programs for generating a minimum-redundancy exhaustive prefix encoding are described. ... One program generates a Huffman frequency tree, another determines the structure functions of an encoding, and a third program assigns codes.

CACM-2166
Particular attention is paid to the use of Poisson series, and a typical problem in perturbation theory is described. ... Automated Algebraic Manipulation in Celestial Mechanics In this paper we consider some of the applications of automated algebraic manipulation which have been made in celestial mechanics.

CACM-3075
A realistic model is used model is used in which no memory contention is permitted. ... The model of computation for this procedure permits simultaneous fetches from the same memory location.

CACM-2685
Practical application to the design of compilers for such computers is discussed. ... The Parallel Execution of DO Loops Methods are developed for the parallel execution of different iterations of a DO loop.

CACM-1632
In this method, the total sum of squares is partitioned into orthogonal single degree of freedom sums of squares; main effect and interaction sums of squares are then obtained by appropriate pooling of the single degree of freedom sums of squares. ... Program segments to accomplish the procedure are presented.

CACM-2804
Elementary Divisors of Tensor Products The elementary divisors of a tensor product of linear transformations have been known for 40 years. ... This paper provides a short, easily accessible proof of these results, and points out an interesting combinatorial consequence of the proof.

CACM-2779
Discrete Least Squares Polynomial Fits The recurrence relation between orthogonal polynomials is widely used for discrete least squares data fitting. ... A variant of the classical algorithm which has better numerical properties is presented and the reason for its improved performance is explained.

CACM-3071
An Algorithm Using Symbolic Techniques for the Bel-Petrov Classification of Gravitational Fields In this note, an algorithm is presented for the symbolic calculation of certain algebraic invariants of the Weyl tensor which permits the determination of the Bel-Petrov types of a gravitational field. ... The algorithm has been implemented in FORMAC and is designed to complete the classification scheme proposed by Petrov in his book.

CACM-1672
Practical Error Coefficients in the Integration of Periodic Analytic Functions by the Trapezoidal Rule Theoretical and practical values of error coefficients useful in bounding the error in integrating periodic analytic functions with the trapezoidal rule are tabulated for various ranges of the parameters.

CACM-2311
For each generation, the scope of development projects and the technological world view of the system developer are examined. ... A Generational Perspective of Information System Development System development is categorized from a generational point of view that parallels the commonly described computing system generations.

CACM-3138
A simple means of constructing test cases and some sample computing times are presented. ... A Mathematical Programming Updating Method Using Modified Givens Transformations and Applied to LP Problems An efficient and numerically stable method is presented for the problem of updating an orthogonal decomposition of a matrix of column (or row) vectors.

CACM-1619
Error-Free Methods for Statistical Computations Neely has discussed computational error generated by some algorithms used to compute various statistics. ... In the present paper methods are described which are error-free, simple in concept, and usually less costly in machine time than those mentioned by Neely.

CACM-1087
Problems in Automatic Abstracting A variety of problems concerning the design and operation of an automatic abstracting system are discussed. ... No attempt is made to discuss details or to indicate preferences among alternative solutions.

CACM-1682
The Implementation of a BASIC System in a Multiprogramming Environment The implementation of a remote terminal BASIC system within the context of an existing multiprogramming computer system, the Burroughs B5500, is described. ... This implementation combines a unique mixture of machine language and interpretive techniques with an incremental compiler.

CACM-3035
A Strategic Planning Methodology for the Computing Effort in Higher Education: An Empirical Evaluation The findings of a study designed to address the pressing problems associated with the strategic planning of the computing effort in higher education are presented here. ... A planning methodology was developed and tested through implementation at a university.

CACM-0479
A Dispersion Pass Algorithm for the Polyphase Merge This paper presents a new manner of dispersing strings for a Polyphase merge. ... If the number of strings dispersed is between two levels acceptable by Polyphase merge, a more economical technique of reaching the next level for Polyphase merge is shown and proved.

CACM-0691
Examples of APT usage are included. ... A Description of the APT Language The APT (Automatically Programmed Tools) language for numerical control programming is described using the metalinguistic notation introduced in the ALGOL 60 report.

CACM-1279
The procedure is shown to assign a unique integer to each sequence and to generate a reasonably compact set of values. ... Use of a Conditional Base Number System for Encoding Sequences of Correlated Characters A procedure is described for the relatively efficient encoding of sequences of characters which have predecessor-successor selection rules.

CACM-1160
The output consists of the translated COMPASS language program together with a comprehensive diagnostic listing which the user must analyze in order to verify any questionable areas of the translation. ... The input to the system is a FAP program deck which has been specially prepared for translation by the user.

CACM-2984
The method includes a technique for the visual representation of system performance. ... Cost/Utilization: A Measure of System Performance A method is presented for evaluating computer system performance in terms of a cost/utilization factor and a measure of imbalance.

CACM-0276
Project ASCII-MATIC is concerned with the application of computer techniques to the activities of certain headquarters military intelligence operations of the U. ... Program Organization and Record Keeping for Dynamic Storage Allocation The material presented in this paper is part of the design plan of the core allocation portion of the ASCII-MATIC Programming System.

CACM-3003
A Survey of the Literature in Computer Science Education Since Curriculum '68 A bibliography of approximately two hundred references in computer science education appearing in the literature since the publication of "Curriculum '68" is presented. ... The bibliography itself is preceded by brief descriptive materials organizing the references into the categories of survey reports, activities of professional organizations, philosophy of programs, description of programs, description of courses and other materials.

CACM-1568
The plot is similar to a conventional contour map except that there are three scales to represent the independent variables. ... Plotting a Function of Three Independent Variables A method is developed for constructing an approximate plot of a function of three independent variables.

CACM-3118
Permutation of Data Blocks in a Bubble Memory A common internal organization of bubble memories consists of a set of (minor) loops, connected through another (major) loop. ... The problem of obtaining any give n permutation of the minor loop contents in minimum time is studied in this paper.

CACM-3010
This is confirmed by the value ratings of 313 students at the University of Minnesota in 1972. ... Computer science majors were found to have a more complex value structure than social science majors.

CACM-2140
Retrieval-Update Speed Tradeoffs Using Combined Indices In a paper in the November 1970 Communications of the ACM, V. ... Lum introduced a technique of file indexing named combined indices.

CACM-0092
An attempt is made here to begin a systematic classification of the various devices for educating the computer to take over the decision-making functions of one or many human operators, both those that have been demonstrated feasible to date and those that are highly desirable for the future. ... A Checklist of Intelligence for Programming Systems A remarkable variation exists in the degree of sophistication of various programming systems.

CACM-1030
The evaluation of the Boolean functions which characterize the computer being simulated constitutes one major portion of a simulation system. ... Four general procedural classes for evaluating these functions are defined.

CACM-2596
Simulation results are presented which compare this method with the buddy method. ... However, the total fragmentation is smaller for the weighted buddy method when the requests are for exponentially distributed block sizes.

